原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VEqOPjCPMJ8

Why is writing conducive to good
thinking?
&gt;&gt; It's very easy to fool yourself.
Uh I mean that underlies my uh my whole
idea of of writing proofs. One thing I
learned is that you had to write a a
correctness proof of an concurrent
algorithm.
And when my algorithm starting to get
more complicated,
the proofs started I started writ
PhD in math. I knew how to write proofs
and I was starting writing the proofs
the way I would normally do. And I
realized it just didn't work because
there were just so many details involved
and I just couldn't keep track of them
and whether I had done it. And so as a
computer science know how to deal with
concurrency
uh it's hierarchical structure and so I
devised this hierarchical structure
where a proof is uh you know is a
sequence of steps each of which has a
proof and the proof is either a par well
a proof is either a paragraph or a
statement a sequence of steps each with
its proof and that proof can be either a
paragraph graph or a sequence of steps
with its proof and you know so you break
the whole problem up into these smaller
pieces. So there's never any question of
you know where is this coming from. You
know you're stating that this step
follows from you know this step this
step this step this step and if it does
not follow from that step your proof is
wrong. The theorem might be correct but
but means your proof is wrong. Um well
you know so I've discovered that worked
great on writing my proofs of programs
but I decided to really you know I also
write proofs of theorems you know you
know uh you know think proofs that are
things that are you know more like
ordinary math and I started trying that
on them and I discovered it worked
beautifully. So when I started to to try
to convince mathematicians to write
these proofs uh I started in one small
seminar I went you know won't describe
what it was about but uh and I I
described this this proof through maybe
uh 20 mathematicians or something their
reaction shocked me
they became angry
I really thought that they might
physically attack me. So
I believe that what's going on is that
when pe I mean I believe that's totally
irrational and when people act
irrationally
it tends to be out of fear
and what I believe people are afraid of
is that mathematicians are afraid of is
that they're going to have to write
their proofs to convince a a computer
program and and in fact you know and I
give it a one of those talks I gave you
know I say very clearly this doesn't
have to be you don't have to be any more
formal than you do you can write the
exact same thing proof you know but it's
just a matter of organizing things and
it's very simple you know hierarchical
structure and then when you're using a
fact mention that you're using that
nothing about formalism or anything you
know after I gave that talk someone got
up and said I don't want to have to
write my proof my my proofs for a
computer program.
And in fact, it's more work doing that
because the reason it's more work is
that it reveals what you haven't said
and that there's steps in there that you
know, you may think they're obvious, but
you haven't written them down.
And if you think you know something, but
don't write it down, you only think you
know
