原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-pZ3vD0r8a0

You're really only limited to your ideas
and to your imagination where you can
kind of just turn things into reality.
&gt;&gt; You were the three-time gold medalist of
the II, a top programming competition in
the world. Now you're running one of the
top AI companies here.
&gt;&gt; When we launched Devon in March of 24,
it was the first autonomous agent. One
hour of human time spent managing Devon
was worth like 6 to 12 hours of that
human time doing the work themselves.
Elon had this phrase that he really
drilled into us, which is everyone is
chief engineer.
&gt;&gt; Let's talk about this new era of
software abundance. For us at Cognition,
for example, our engineers don't type
code anymore. You really can just
[music] turn your ideas into reality.
&gt;&gt; The engineer and the designer and the
product manager all look at each other
and say, "I don't need you guys
anymore."
&gt;&gt; CEO and Cole Brown
here. [music]
Scott Woo was a three-time global gold
medalist in programming. I worked with
him in the past. He's now running one of
the fastest growing AI companies in the
world, helping to usher in this era of
software abundance. He and Russell,
co-founders, met up with us. We played
some games. Not going to tell you who
won. These [music] are pretty smart
guys. But it's always really interesting
to hear from Scott and Russell about the
cutting edge of AI, how [music] the
world's changing, and what we can create
in this new era of abundance. Scott and
Russell built Devon, who was the very
first AI programming agent two years
ago. They're already launching in all
sorts of other areas. They're now
transforming how governments work as
well. Excited to see where they're
headed next. Welcome to American
Optimist. We have back Scott Woo, the
CEO and founder of Cognition, and your
co-founder Russell. And to remind
people, Scott, you were the three-time
uh gold medalist of the II, a top
programming competition in the world. I
think you were the onetime world
champion at 17, and we worked together
at Adapar after that. And now you're
running one of the top AI companies here
in the world. Russell, I think you
started your career at Tesla as an ML
engineer. You sold a company to scale.
You guys are you guys are both in your
20s still, right?
&gt;&gt; No, I'm I'm aged out now. I'm 30.
[laughter]
&gt;&gt; You're 30. Oh,
&gt;&gt; I turned 30 this year. So, it's So,
you're turning 30. Okay. Well, that's
okay. You're getting old like me.
[laughter] So, you're still right in the
heart of it here. Is what's the average
age on the team? Actually, I'm curious.
&gt;&gt; I think it's probably So, so on
engineering, it's about 25. Um, and then
obviously on go to markets a little bit
older, but but yeah. Yeah. Well, go to
markets are different. That's fair.
You're running you're running more go to
market stuff.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, we uh I think you know the the
engineering team we have we have 17 year
olds, we have 18 year olds, we have we
have really young folks and then uh but
we'll take anyone at any age as long as
they're ready to grind and and ready to
have a big impact.
&gt;&gt; And you guys have like huge numbers of
people who have won gold medal globally
in programming. This is a very advanced
technical team here at Cutting Edge of
AI. Yeah, I mean some some of our some
of our favorite people I would say are
people who are like you know 17 or 18
like finishing a high school but they
had already played around with a ton of
building agents themselves like working
with AI training models and so on. Um
and it's it's obviously I mean it's
&gt;&gt; actually actually want to ask you about
this really briefly because so you were
you were gold medalist in the world at
15 world champion at 17. It's obvious
people can be really really good at
these things at a young age. Is there
something about AI where like a young
person's brain that kind of grows up in
forms using it could somehow like be
more ahead of anyone who doesn't or
something? How do how do you think about
that?
&gt;&gt; It's a good question. Um yeah know I
mean it's so funny enough so I I went to
what's called the USACO the USA which is
like the the USA computing olympiad. Um
and from there that's that's like the
training camps and all the selection
camps that choose the the national team
that go represent um at at the the
international Olympiad. And every year
there were about 20 kids.
&gt;&gt; It was just like the top 20 kids around
the US. I was from Louisiana. Most
people were from like you know
California or like New York or or like
you know around like Massachusetts like
around around MIT and Harvard and stuff
like that. Um but um but in my year
actually there were a ton of others who
all kind of went into AI and so
obviously Stephen and Andrew who who
started the company um um you know who
who started cognition with us um but but
but also a ton of others and so
Alexander Wang who started scale um Demi
Gu who started pika um the um let's see
who else um Daniel Ziggler who's one of
the co-inventors of RLHF um Alex We who
is like now running a lot of the the
reasoning efforts at OpenAI. Um Johnny
Hoe who started Proplexity. So we were
all the same year actually out out of
that like group of 20 people. Um and it
was kind of an interesting one. I mean I
I think there are a few things there. I
think for one obviously I think
entrepreneurship is infectious you know
and I think um I mean Alexander was I
would say the first to really start a
company and to to see real success with
the company. He he left freshman year
from college to to start start scale
&gt;&gt; and he sold skill obviously for like 16
billion to Facebook or what some funny
structure but but huge success
[laughter] but that probably inspired
other people who were say wait I'm that
smart too I could do this too.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think that was that was a big
motiv and you know we all kind of like
came up together and kind of got to go
through some of these things together
and I think that was a big deal. Um I
think the other thing I would say about
AI particularly is I think in AI what
you see is
that really excelling on the technical
aspect just matters much more I think in
AI than some of these other fields and I
think there's been lots and lots of
businesses in the past that have been
very I'll say like very intense
logistics businesses or very tough kind
of like marketplaces to get started or
for example um businesses where a lot of
your edge is just like how you figure
out keyword distribution or how you kind
of like you know make the right little
like addicting loop and so on. Um and AI
has a ton of these too obviously and and
you know I think all of those same
skills are still necessary. However, I
think in AI in a lot of factors in a lot
of these verticals you know what you see
is that obviously pure technical
execution it's like for for every level
that you push push it there's still like
another level to go and hit. Um, and a
lot of the best companies that we see in
in in the valley are the ones that are
just able to to to roll out like
technology pushes or breakthroughs that
that others have not.
&gt;&gt; And to push you guys on this though,
like is a 17-year-old today who's like
the Scott Woo of today who's a world
champion, who's maybe you're maybe
you're hiring, do they have some special
edge having grown up in this world where
where AI is already possible, where
they're using it like like is
accelerating things further or
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean everyone starts with the
same level of experience with AI for
software engineering, right? Which is
basically none. I mean, every three
months you have to throw out your
previous experience and and build new
experience because the tools get so much
better.
&gt;&gt; This is probably harder for someone
who's my age, I'm 43, than someone who's
like 18 and still learning or no?
&gt;&gt; Yes. Because some people say, "Oh, you
know, it's going to be really hard for
junior engineers now because, you know,
the entry level the entry- level tasks
are being done automatically by AI." But
I think a lot of what we see internally,
it's kind of the opposite in some way
where if you're coming in with no
preconceptions about how things are
supposed to be done or how things are
supposed to work, then you can just go
all in just really embracing this
completely new way of working. Um, but I
think the AI technical depth piece is um
it's actually not just in the sort of
modern generative AI era. You know, when
I was at uh autopilot, I was a machine
learning scientist working on the sort
of the visional network and Elon had
this phrase that he really drilled into
us, which is, you know, everyone is
chief engineer. you know, everyone on
the autopilot team has to understand how
the full stack worked. And this is
actually extra important in AI because
what happens is the abstraction
boundaries between different teams start
to break down. You know, the sort of
classical way that the self-driving
system worked, but you had a, you know,
a perception team, you had a planning
team, you had a controls team, and they
had these like thin interface boundaries
between them. But the nice thing about
AI is you can optimize systems end to
end. So, if you want to actually
optimize systems end to end, you have to
have an accurate mental model of how
each of those pieces work. And so I
think more sort of technical breadth and
depth across the entire stack is
becoming increasingly relevant.
&gt;&gt; That is an interesting kind of way Elon
does things which I've seen a lot of
really top people, not too many but some
top people do things is in order to
really be the best you have to
understand everything going on. So it's
really breath and depth in a way. And so
you're saying yeah it makes that a lot
easier to do that because it can give
you some of that breath you wouldn't
have otherwise.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean like the way we onboard
onto our own codebase new people you
just ask Devon all the all the questions
of what's going on why is this done this
way? What's the historical context? Do
you tell them they're also like
equivalent of like the chief engineer
where they have to learn everything or
it seems like it's take a while to
learn. I mean there's a big code base
now.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I think in practice it's so
much of it is is all obviously very
connected and so I mean simple example
of this is like we bought Windsor you
know seven eight months ago at this
point but like we don't have a
distinction of like oh this person is an
engineer working on Devon or this person
is an engineer working on Windsor. Like
a lot of the same people should be
people who are kind of you know working
across both of these. So, catch us up
since we last talked. Uh, like like what
what what's the state of cognition?
Where are we now? You're probably not
giving out revenue numbers, but you're
you've grown a lot. Like, what can you
tell us?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, it's it's I mean, it's we've
had a ton of growth over the last I
guess it's just under a year since we
last talked. Um, and obviously, you
know, back in July, we bought Windsurf,
but but I I I think over the last
several months, I think both Devon and
Windsurf have grown uh exponentially.
One of the fun stats actually is uh
today is March 9th and we actually at
this point have already done more Devon
sessions uh in our customers in 2026
than we had in 2025. And so basically
over the last like two months and
change, we've already done more Devon uh
usage in total than than we had in all
of 2025.
&gt;&gt; So it's more more than like sixx or
something. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. And obviously, you know,
we're we're we're working on making sure
that that that growth trend continues
and so we'll see how that goes. But but
uh but no I mean I I think the business
has grown a lot. We've been working with
um a lot of the the biggest companies in
the world you know City Bank, Santandere
um and so on um on figuring out how we
really you know transform their
engineering efforts.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. One of the one of the interesting
developments since last year is um you
know when we launched Devon in March of
24 it was the first autonomous agent,
right? It was like very early for the
form factor. Um and it was I would
describe it as kind of like just at the
edge of possible then in terms of doing
in terms of doing real useful work.
&gt;&gt; It made a lot more mistakes back then
obviously.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. It was much less reliable.
You know our infrastructure around it
the connectivity with the rest of the
codebase was a lot less mature. I mean
it took us until summer of 2024 for
Devon to become the number one
contributor to its own codebase like
which was like the first real milestone
and then towards the sort of the end of
2024 um to really get deployed in
production at large scale at meaningful
companies. But one of the things we
learned is that if you look at sort of
where the technology was in 2024, it was
not it was not reliable enough to to be
used as the primary source of software
engineering for most tasks, right? You
actually still need a tighter feedback
loop in that year between AI and humans
for most things. And so one of the sort
of first niches we found where this was
actually already really useful back then
was in these very large code bases that
just have tons of existing technical
debt or complexity and you want to do a
large scale refactor across you know
10,000 services. If you're if you're
doing it this sort of normal way as a
human engineer you might have to define
some new architecture and then manually
go implement thousands and thousands of
changes. And these changes would be
complex enough that you couldn't just
write a reax but um you know not so
complex that AI with you know couldn't
help. And so that's kind of one of the
earliest places I think we got to real
strong like product market fit is inside
these like very large complex code
bases. And that's one of the reasons now
if you look at the state of our business
we're deployed at a lot of the largest
most complex organizations in the world.
You know like most of the top health
insurers, retailers, banks, government
agencies and these places with large
complex amounts of code have been
actually surprisingly early adopters of
Gentle. These guys just have like
massive amounts of code that has been
doing the same thing for 30 years on a
very old architecture and you can go in
there and pretty easily accurately fix
that I guess. Huh.
&gt;&gt; Totally. It's actually it's like to your
point on is this a new skill for
engineering. It's, you know, the the
mindset of an architect inside one of
those organizations has become, you
know, you're almost like a CTO of an
agent fleet now. You you you define the
problem space of what you want to go
solve and then you just spin up your
army of devans to actually go do the
implementation work and then you kind of
review the results. It's like a very
different way of programming. There's
all these memes in San Francisco where
like nerdy guys are on dates but they're
too distracted watching their fleet of
agents and to talk to the girl. It's
like it's a problem.
&gt;&gt; I have I have gotten in trouble with my
wife for that. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Let's let's talk about this new era of
software abundance as you call it. What
does software abundance mean? What's
what's cognition's role there? Yeah, you
know, I think the simple way to put it
is is I mean to to Russell's point, all
of these traditional industries, you
know, it's you you in Silicon Valley,
the way we think about software
engineers is is, you know, obviously
these tech startups or these tech
companies that are building. The reality
is every company in the world has
software, right? I mean software is in
many ways I think the the the premier
knowledge work job of this century. Um,
and so you know, you you're you're
talking about like CVS or you're talking
about Walmart or you're talking about
UHG or you're talking about, you know,
Goldman Sachs, like all of these places
have so many so many software engineers
and they have so much software that
they're building. Um, because obviously
so much of what we do in the world now
happens, you know, over the web or um
yeah, with with computers, right? Um,
and I think what we what we kind of
think of when we think of software
abundance is just getting to a point
where
&gt;&gt; you really can just turn your ideas into
reality and build what you want to
build. Um and and one way that I like to
think about this is you know you can
kind of think about software products on
a scale of like let's say a log scale
based on how much reach they have or how
many users they have right you think
about the best products in the world and
the products that everybody uses all the
time and this is like you know YouTube
or Instagram or Tik Tok or something
like that and it's you know these are
incredibly good products u and it makes
sense I mean they have billions of users
and so they have you know a hundred
thousand software engineers or tens of
thousands of software engineers that are
working on them right and you feel it in
the product you know it's it's The
experience is perfect. Like there's
never bugs. It doesn't go down. It's
streaming you like gigabytes of data. Um
the algorithm is super addicting. Right.
Like they they they've really like
perfected themselves.
&gt;&gt; I myself used two the three you
mentioned. They're too addictive
actually.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. They're too addictive. Right. And
then you go to the next tier of like
okay instead of billions of users let's
talk about the products that have
hundreds of millions of users, right?
and you're thinking about like you know
banks or you're thinking about like you
know apps like Uber or Door Dash or
you're thinking about like um you know a
lot of these various other kind of
services and products that we all use
right um and it's similarly it's like
you know you feel the software and it's
it's obviously built quite well but it's
already you know I think you notice a
different level of of like how much
execution there is and then there's a
next level and a next level and next
level and it goes all the way down to
you know your your like you know your
your your kid's website a school website
which is from like 2001 or something and
it's like an elementary and it has like
a picture that's like super outdated and
has no other information about that,
right? And and so like maybe one way to
put this is, you know, I think software
abundance means making it much easier
for everyone with every idea or every
product or use case that they want to
serve to be able to climb that ladder
and build products as well as the best
products in the world are built right
now.
&gt;&gt; And and for someone for a lot of our
listeners are not as in the AI world,
they might be CEOs of of a bank or
something or running other businesses
like like what is AI actually changing
about how engineers work, right? like
what does a great engineer's workflow
look like now?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a great question and and the
simple way that I put this is that for
us at Cognition for example, our
engineers don't type code anymore. Like
that's that's just reality
&gt;&gt; and this is as of the last several
months. This is within the last yeah 3
to 6 months honestly when this shift has
really happened and and there are other
steps to be clear obviously but but I
think at this point you know you you you
used to maybe one way to put it is like
I mean you used to work with punch cards
for example and you used to work and and
now in in many ways the medium has
shifted away from code and a lot more of
it has become basically English right
and so so you know we we obviously use a
ton of Devon internally uh we use you
know windsurf and the and the agents
inside windsurf internally as well but
at this point either way what whatever
tools you're using. You know, it's not
really you typing out the lines of code
yourself. It's it's you looking,
understanding what it is that you want
to do, thinking about, okay, how do I
want to handle this case or this
behavior, and you just tell the agent
what you want it to do in English,
right? And it goes and build.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And in terms of then like what the
impact of that is especially you know if
it's like a CEO level uh objective what
we're seeing across the board across the
customer base is people are just getting
more ambitious you know like it used to
be the case that uh you have this entire
software development life cycle and
every step of that cycle is oriented
around not wasting the super precious
time of engineers writing code and now
you have suddenly this overflowing
abundance of the ability to generate
code from ideas from prompts
&gt;&gt; you can iterate faster on ideas you can
just try stuff you can try stuff a lot
faster. You know, you don't necessarily
need to spend three weeks on design
before you then hand it off to
engineering because engineering is so
fast that the turn, you know, the cycle
time is much tighter. Um, and so, you
know, increasingly, especially at the
executive level, it's like, oh, do we
have to choose between A or B? Let's
just try both.
&gt;&gt; I mean, could could the product people
themselves create some things now or how
does I mean, we see it every there's
like a joke where it's sort of, you
know, the the the engineer and the
designer and the product manager all
look at each other and say, I don't need
you guys anymore. Uh, because they're
all they're all just doing it all
themselves, right? It's like every
person is empowered to to do the other
aspects of the product development life
cycle and and I think it's really
rewarding people who are you know
actually personally highly agentic and
thinking about okay what's the impact I
can go have um and and be sort of like
self-reliant in that way and I know you
know with Devon a lot of product
managers one of the very first things
they they started using Devon for was
actually to not bother the engineers
with questions with silly question you
know how often have you know you're a
new employee at a company you don't
understand what's going on somewhere and
you're a little nervous to say hey Can
you explain this to me? You know,
everyone Devon is very non-judgmental.
You know, you'll ask a question, you get
the answer.
&gt;&gt; I actually ask it a lot of dumb
questions, too. It's like cuz I'm the
boss. I'm supposed to know something.
I'm like, crap, what does that acronym
mean again? But you no one judges you.
You just do it right away.
&gt;&gt; Totally. Yeah. You you know, and you'll
cite the it will sort of actually cite
the source code alongside it too. And
and you know, give it kind of puts
everyone actually more on the same
playing field in a way where everyone
has the same context.
&gt;&gt; And by the way, agency is something I'm
thinking a lot about for society
recently. It seems like highly agentic
people is like a big advantage for
everyone, right? But but along those
lines, like what are the habits or
instincts of someone who's going to be
particularly good at leveraging Devon?
Like like are there certain things
you're seeing?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, for sure. No, I I mean, one
way to put it um is, you know, I think
software engineering for for people who
who've grown up doing programming and so
on and have been through all these
previous eras. You know, usually what
software engineering has looked like is
like why why do people who love coding
love coding, right? And I think the
answer is like 10% of that job is
basically this really fun part of just
pure problem solving thinking about what
you want to build being creative like
understanding the different solutions
deciding okay what architecture makes
sense here how exactly am I going to you
know achieve my goals here what do I
want to build right and then 90% of the
job is once you have figured out all
those parts just doing all the dirty
work of the implementation to go make
that happen right and there's like a
million bugs that your customers have
reported for you and you have to deal
with this messy migration or this
upgrade to to make your stuff still work
or like you have to go implement all the
little cases and all the little details
and like write all the you know the
front-end code that that serves this
thing that you just built, right? And I
think what we're seeing is that the best
engineers are just doing 10 times more
of the first part because you don't have
to do that 90%, right? You have an
agent, you have dev that's going to go
and do that for you. Um, and I think to
your point that obviously means that,
you know, having high agency is is
really really important. Um, we think
about this ourselves internally. It's
it's one of the jokes is is like, you
know, we're we're we're a reasoning lab
building agents. And so the things that
we really value are agency and reason.
Um, and I and I think it's to to your
point like a lot of the skills that
really matter are, you know, are you the
kind of person that's going to think
about, okay, this should be this way
instead of that way or like what is the
right way to solve this problem or what
what do we want to do here?
&gt;&gt; And also and also just like internally
embracing the abundance mindset too
where you know a lot of times you might
be in your head, oh should we do it this
way or that way? I think a lot of our
best engineers they just rip it all of
the ways at the same time and then you
know you get a bunch of devons come back
and then you can sort of analyze the
results and try it in parallel. It
reminds me again, it's kind of like the
mindset of actually being a good machine
learning researcher is now relevant for
every type of software engineering. You
know, if you look back a few years ago,
what were machine learning researchers
doing? So, you know, at Tesla, we had
one mantra which was uh you know, never
go to sleep while the GPUs are idling.
&gt;&gt; You know, if you let your cluster idle
overnight, that's just a huge waste of
resources. Just just kick off some
experiments, you know, before you go to
bed so you can wake up, you get some
more data. And it's it's the same for
all of software now. Like, why would you
go to sleep while the devs are idling,
right? You could just be ripping a ton
you could be ripping a ton of working
while you're sleeping.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Exactly. And so I think um
there's actually a lot of parallels in
my head where it's not just about that.
It's also um some comfort with
non-determinism. You know, a lot of a
lot of engineering, it's it's an
incredibly precise craft and there's
it's sort of naturally uncomfortable and
natural to not have full control over
everything that's going on. But if you
if you get a little bit more willing to
embrace the non-determinism and okay,
exactly how should this be implemented
as long as we can validate system
performance end to end and I can
actually understand the results. Um I
think machine learning went through that
lesson years ago and now we're going
through it for the rest of software.
&gt;&gt; So I mean every once in a long while
someone would probably check the machine
learning to machine sorry someone check
like the machine assembly code actually
on something if they're really trying to
optimize something. Do people are there
still people checking the actual regular
code on things that they really have to
these days is like how do you think
about that? Yeah, for sure. And for what
it's worth, you know, I I think we are
we are still in the midst of a lot of
this change. And so, you know, I think
while people are producing code with
just English, you know, often you do
come back and you're still reviewing
that code, you're making sure that it
looks right or or you're looking at the
code as it is to understand what's going
on. Um, and I think to your point, it is
kind of like in the right cases when you
want to peel back the layer of
abstraction. Um and and I think what
we'll see over the next, you know, 12 18
months is is that we will continue to
get further and further to this point
where you use English for for almost
everything.
&gt;&gt; You don't have to do it anymore. And and
and what does this mean? So So obviously
a lot's happening a lot faster. We just
we just we've covered this. This is and
this is this is money movement. This is
military stuff. This is this is health
care. It's flights. It's maintenance.
It's scheduling. Building new things,
permitting. Like like everything in the
world, a lot more people realize is
software. And and we're going now what?
five times faster, 10 times faster soon
on software. It's almost like we're
getting multiple years done in one year,
right? So, what what does what does that
mean for society? How do you think about
that?
&gt;&gt; I um yeah, I think about this a lot. Um
you have you ever seen the graph of
inflation by different sectors and you
can see, you know, the sort of highly
regulated constraint sectors at the top,
you know, like tuition, healthcare
spending,
&gt;&gt; the cost of these sectors are broken and
everything else gets
&gt;&gt; right and then the plasma screen TVs are
just way down.
&gt;&gt; Japanese taught us what to do. Yeah, I I
kind of think that's that chart is going
to happen for like all of society
basically. And in particular, if you
think about where is software,
&gt;&gt; it's we're going to enter this like
hyperdelationary cycle of software where
it's it's so easy to build. It's so
abundant. That doesn't mean that people
are going to, you know, stop producing
software. They're actually going to
produce thousands of times more
software, right? And so you're going to
have this total software abundance, but
basically any problem that's kind of
solvable in the digital realm should
just get solved in the digital realm.
And so I think what you're left behind
with is um you know now how do we direct
a lot of this new energy to going
improving the physical world going
improving everything else.
&gt;&gt; You actually have to do things with real
operations with real people in the real
world. Now I guess robots could change
that too but but for now anyway with to
put robots aside the returns to actually
doing things in the real world should go
up by comparison because it's harder to
make those cheaper right.
&gt;&gt; Yeah we think about that a lot at
cognition of how do we how do we not
just improve things improve software for
software's sake but how do those
improvements basically translate into
real world benefits for everyone. Um
ultimately these things are tools in
service of of our own lives, our
companies, our our businesses um and our
livelihood.
&gt;&gt; The real world is messy and you have to
interact.
&gt;&gt; It's super messy. It's super messy. And
I think a lot of engineers uh fall into
the into the trap of I want to solve
this very pure problem, you know. Um and
there's nothing wrong. It's actually
really fun to solve pre you know a lot
of our team they spend their entire
programming careers just optimizing
their ability to solve you know the
purest algorithmic programming problems
in the world. But it's an interesting
contrast to you know one of the things
that really different differentiates
cognition in the market right now. What
what we keep hearing from customers is
you know we have this this for deployed
engineering team that will go partner
really deeply with large organizations
and say hey it's not just about the
tools we're delivering but how do we get
into the weeds together to actually go
drive like big structural changes like
&gt;&gt; tell me a bit more about that. You guys
have obviously deployed with a lot of
the biggest companies in the world. What
are some of the more impressive results
you guys have seen in the wild? Yeah. So
the earliest results that we where we
where we saw we were like oh there's
there's something here where they
started with um basically like
modernization programs. So people that
had large legacy existing things they
needed to transform. And if you sort of
did the math to scope out how long it
would take maybe it would be like a
two-year project. And you know
relatively quickly by like late 2024 we
were measuring you know somewhere
between a 6 to 12x productivity gain for
those types of projects. meaning that
you know one hour of human time spent
managing Devon was worth like 6 to 12
hours of that human time doing the work
themselves. Um and so that was a big
that was like a big early result and we
started doing lots of lots of
engagements where uh our customers would
use you would use Devon to just refactor
migrate modernize these large systems.
Now the interesting trend that we're
seeing is um a shift from really uh
reactive to proactive engineering work.
So you know if you think of the early
days of the internet most of the packets
that were sent on the internet u it was
like a human clicking a button or or
visiting a link or initiating some
requests and then at some point it it
totally flipped and now most of the
packets are initiated by machines
talking to other machines and I think
we're now seeing the sort of the
flipping there uh for software itself
which is um the process of deciding what
code to write uh it used to be entirely
a human scoped thing. Now we have
people, you know, we have people wiring
up Devon to all sorts of um events and
alerts inside their organizations to
say, "Hey, let's just start the
engineering work right away when
something happens." I'll give you one
example. uh one of the largest uh
regulated firms in the world. They they
they do very um thorough sort of
security vulnerability scanning on their
code and they make sure to understand is
this potentially insecure here or there.
And there's great existing tools for
scanning that you know sonar cube,
veraric code, sneak there's this whole
there's this whole market of of tools
and what they did was they hooked up all
of those alerts they were getting from
those tools and they just started piping
them to Devon saying Devon can you take
the first pass triage because if you're
a human engineer at a company you're
drowning in these alerts. It's not it's
honestly not a really fun part of your
job. And they're remediating 70% of
these automatically now in production
with with Devon. And so it's really
flipping the you know kind of flipping
the
&gt;&gt; I've been thinking a little bit about
the pyramids with regard to this lately
where it's like almost impossible to see
how people with like no tools at all
built the pyramids. And it does seem
amazing if you look at the software that
we have built up until like a couple
years ago that all this exists all by
people when you and then I feel like
that would be like something you'd look
at 20 years from now when everyone just
uses uses all that by hand. How do you
imagine that? seems like totally
impossible.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. No, I think to your point
too, I mean, I I think there's sometimes
a question about u you know, we're
talking about, okay, this is going to
get way easier to build. It's going to
be way cheaper to build these things.
And so then what happens? And I think
the reality is like we have so much more
to I mean, I was thinking about this
even like today, you know, it's it's
like you wake up, you're like uh you
know, you're you're like let's say
you're like logging in to check your
medical records and it's like not a very
good experience. You're like logging
into your bank, it's like not a very
good experience. There's so much to fix.
There's so much to fix. So so many of
these things and to your point I think
the reality is just there's so much more
that we can do with software. I mean I
think some of the things that people
have started talking more about which is
I think what we're going to get to over
the next little bit are things like even
like generative UIs or like single-use
software right if you get to a point
where you know so so much of the work
that you want to do is it can be done in
code. It just doesn't make sense to like
write code for a single you know for for
something that you're only going to do
one time or even something that you're
only going to do like 10 or 20 times.
Right. I love that the AI could actually
write code for this instance coming up
and give you the right UI for what's
going on.
&gt;&gt; Gives you exactly the right thing and
builds that. Yeah. And so this is I mean
people talk about Jevans paradox and I
think I mean in in in software it is
perhaps I I think there's nowhere that
it is more true than in software right
as we have produced more and more and as
we it's gotten easier the reality is
that actually demand has only gone up.
That's actually a really fun idea. Like
right now luxury is like it's like
funia. It's really nice. The stitching
is right. But what if luxury was like
it's a perfect UI for you just for this
instance in your life or you happen to
need it, right? It's kind of funny.
&gt;&gt; No, either that or actually luxury might
flip the other side because um artisal
handcrafted software is [laughter] going
to be so rare. It's like you know the in
the early days of the industrial
revolution was like oh great mechanized
mechanized labor for goods like that was
the higher status good because of course
the machines were more precise. the the
bags were more, you know, were more
perfectly made and now it's totally
flipped. If something's handmade, that's
um that's obviously much higher status
because it's so rare and like how could
you expend the resources for that?
&gt;&gt; This website was handmade. You can tell
because of all the little bugs in
&gt;&gt; I think we're going to I think we're
actually I think we're going to
[laughter] see that in in software.
Yeah, this is like handcrafted artal
code.
&gt;&gt; It's like it's like the Amish except
that they're doing software.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Hands. It's like a 2020 society frozen
in time. people making you handmade
goods and that's very silly. So speaking
of speaking of like things that are
broken and that there's like infinite
need to fix like government to me is
like one of those areas where I think if
you like were to graph everything in
terms of getting better or worse and
efficient or less efficient it's like
probably unfortunately comes off as like
really really messed up and I'm already
starting to hear some pretty interesting
things in government. Um my friend Jared
Kushner who's obviously you know been
involved in these administrations he
worked with Qatar with El and I and they
built something where the permits only
take uh 120 minutes there. So if you
want a permit to build something it'll
get back to you in two hours which is
pretty cool right so there's like that
was like there's all these ways
government could do things better with
software. Uh you guys just launched
cognition for government like what's
what's the goal with that? What's going
on? Yeah, I mean I think at a high level
I mean we talk about places where where
there has so much more software to
build, so many things to fix and I mean
I government is is is an obvious example
of that and all of these departments
similarly you know things that we used
to do by hand not even that long ago
honestly I mean 20 30 years ago like
lots of these things were done by hand
at the treasury. Now so much of that is
software and yet so much of that
software obviously still has such a such
a long way to go. Um, and I think from
our perspective, you know, when we think
about how do we make sure that the US
stays in pace with what it needs to be,
how do we make sure that, you know, that
the the breakthroughs that are coming
through in AI in the private sector are
also coming through in the public
sector. Um, it's it's it's something
that's that's a really important problem
for us to work.
&gt;&gt; I also think there's there's something
poetic about it because I think people
don't appreciate this, but the
government is really responsible for a
lot of modern technical innovation, you
know, going back decades and centuries.
Uh, Scott drew the analogy earlier to,
you know, punch cards. And I think I
think people don't appreciate this, but
really the first widescale production
use of punch cards was the 1890 census.
Okay, in the in the 1880s they did the
census by hand. They tallied it took
like seven years and they were doing the
math and they realized that 1890 if they
did the census the same way it was it
was going to be longer than 10 years and
the census is every 10 years. So they
were screwed. [snorts] And so the
government basically put out this call
for call for technology help uh you know
can we can we solve this problem with
technology and uh there was a there was
a a guy by the name of Hollerith who he
invented what later became the Hollerith
machine to use punch cards for actually
running the 1890 census and it was on
time. it was under budget uh and and it
kind of kickstarted actually a lot of a
lot of modern uh software you know where
uh where I where I studied at at
Stanford a lot of that the Silicon
Valley ecosystem was actually really
invested in by the by the government um
back you know decades ago um partially
for for defense and now we're in this
we're sort of this flipping point even
even by the way self-driving I mean
DARPA doesn't get enough credit I think
for for really kickstarting the
self-driving revolution with the DARPA
grand challenge and and now we're kind
of in this state of the world where the
government spends hundred billion
dollars a year on just IT modernization.
Um we have huge amounts of government
still written in cobalt uh with people
who you know have left or no longer
understand how how the code works and
it's really holding us back and I mean
you feel it as a citizen dayto-day.
Think about you know your interaction
with the DMV or or trying to pay your
taxes um
&gt;&gt; or waiting for a permit to come for
&gt;&gt; or waiting for a permit. Yeah. I mean
these things have real world
consequences. Um and that's one of the
things I'm personally really excited for
is is you know if you can bring
technology like this um across the
private and public sector it's like a
great equalizer for for entering work.
&gt;&gt; Can you deal with the cobalt stuff? Is
that something Devon?
&gt;&gt; Cobalt is a cobalt's actually a massive
use case for us. Yeah. Yeah. One of the
early bets and investments we made was
in what we call codebase intelligence.
So you know if you think about a like a
modern language model there's a limited
context window right. um uh but a lot of
the largest organizations in the world,
they have very very complex code bases
that do not fit inside a single uh
inside a single context window. We've
done a lot of work both on the model
training and RL side, but also um on the
sort of harness engineering around that
and the indexing around that to figure
out how do you work with really messy
custom languages. And so Cobalt, it's
actually not even the hardest one for
us. One one of the examples I like is
Goldman Sachs has invented some of their
own programming languages. People don't
know this, but Goldman has a pretty
insane internal engineering team and
they've they've literally written their
own programming languages and they've
been able to sort of customize and tune
to work on those internal languages. Um,
so Cobalt is actually easier in some
sense than that.
&gt;&gt; So when the government, I mean, they
spend 100 billion a year in it. It's
ironic because you're right, sometimes
government in the past, especially when
innovation was really expensive, they
they pushed some new things that they
otherwise wouldn't have happened. Uh,
today most of that hundred billion
dollars is spent by on special interests
that don't seem to be using the money
well. So, so it's a giant mess. What are
the types of projects you're working on?
&gt;&gt; Totally. I mean, the the incentives are
obviously super screwed up for a bunch
of reasons that your listeners are are
probably familiar to. One of the less
one of the less known ones that I think
we actually might be able to just
sidestep is the government is a really
unique buyer of software for a bunch of
reasons, but one of them is that a lot
of times they want to own the IP of the
software they're using. And this is a
this has a really big implications for
most SAS businesses. You know, if you
make scheduling software and your
business is a SAS business, you you
don't want the government to own your
IP. You want them to have a license to
it to use it for scheduling. And
actually, that desire is literally
incompatible with how a lot of
government contracting has worked and
happened historically. So, you end up in
this situation where the government
says, "Oh, you know, this scheduling
provider, this is a real example. This
scheduling provider that has great SAS
that can do scheduling. I can't use it
because I wouldn't own the IP, so I have
to go work with the systems integrator
and completely custom build my own."
Right? Insane. Now, now what we could
could we lobby and go try to convince
the government to change their policies?
Yes. But actually, I think easier for us
to just sidestep the problem and say,
"Look, Devon can just write this thing
for you." You know, just build it for
you. We're actually because of AI
agents, you know, you're in the you're
in the regime where actually now
everyone can own their own own their own
IP um more easily than before. So, I
think that's one of the ways we're sort
of trying to sidestep some of this
stuff.
&gt;&gt; Can you can you be your own government
contractor? Are you going to have your
own government contract doing this then?
Are you just going to power others? How
are you thinking about?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean right now we have dozens of
of kind of fed ramped deployments of
cognition uh both with agencies and with
primes. You know, we work with uh US
Army, US Navy, the the Treasury, uh we
work with folks like Palunteer, with
Androl uh and other primes. And so we
just want to build sort of the most
capable, most useful Agentic software
engineering platform and then and then
work like heck to kind of get in the
hands of people to make it useful.
&gt;&gt; And in cognition for government, this is
a fast growing business for you then.
Now,
&gt;&gt; I would say government is one of those
things that it it really takes some time
to kind of build and and be compliant
and work in the way that people want to
work. And then once you're there, uh
once you're there, it's it's much easier
to be helpful. And so, we've over the
past year, we've really done a lot of
the leg work to, you know, how do you
get your Fed Ramp certification? How do
you um understand the needs of these
agencies, which are actually pretty
different in a lot of ways again just in
the think just in the civilian sector,
these they're operating under completely
different trade-offs, right? A lot of
the software they use is actually by
statute not allowed for them to write
themselves. Talk about regulatory
capture and interest. You know, there
are literally laws saying you government
agency are not allowed to maintain your
own website. You have to bid this out to
a to to a contractor. And and so it kind
of sounds insane, but you know, that's
the way the system works. And I guess my
experience working on AI with technology
is that a lot of times it's actually
easier to solve like a frontier science
or engineering problem
&gt;&gt; than it is to sort of change the
molasses of the existing world, right?
Uh when we work on self-driving at
Tesla, a lot of folks would ask us, hey,
like why don't you make the cars talk to
each other? Wouldn't that be way easier
for self-driving if all the cars could
talk to themselves? And the answer is,
yeah, it totally would if you got every
car talking to itself. But until then,
you're going to have to deal with human
driven cars. And so then you have to
actually solve the much harder science
problem of predicting the motion of all
those human cars. I think it's the same
for our work with government. So yeah, I
mean right now we have dozens of these
deployments. Um you know I think folks
are are giving us really good feedback
on how much it's accelerating their work
and and some of the some of the missions
are are really exciting. You know think
of an organization like NASA JPL. Um you
know who doesn't want to help us get
back to space faster?
&gt;&gt; I love it. Yeah. We just actually
interviewed Jared Isaacman who's running
NASA. So it's a great guy to partner
with. It it is true in government a lot
of times people say, "Well, this
solution would work if we just put this
thing in the middle and made everything
talk to it." And I'm like, "Sure, that's
what everyone always tries to do in
government, but but these guys are never
going to all work together. They're all
going to debate." And so, you actually
have to design it knowing it's
distributed. It's a very interesting
like the real world's messy and you deal
with it as it is, not as
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It's like the XKCD comic like we
have a dozen standards. Like, this is a
mess. We need one more. Now, you you
know, now you have one more. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. So, so well, I it's very
honorable to go work in government.
America needs that. You're fixing it.
Obviously, you're growing even faster in
the enterprise in general. So, these are
both big businesses. This is obviously a
very competitive time right now. There's
a lot of the smartest people in the
world. You have a lot of them here.
There's some of them at other places as
well. I think very famously some of the
big labs like Enthropic have been I
think they've doubled into the tens of
billions in the last few months. It's
obviously the highest growth thing right
now in in the general area. You guys are
obviously, you know, don't say your
exact revenue, but you're likely to get
into the billions soon if you're not
already there. What's the competition
like? Do people use that with you? Is it
help you when they do well? like how do
you think about these things?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, for sure. So, no, I mean
it's it's an exciting one obviously and
and software engineering and code is
just so big that I think there's there's
there's a ton to do. I mean, we've seen
a ton of growth as well. I mean, our our
usage for example of Devon in in our
customers has I think roughly tripled
already since the start of this year. Um
&gt;&gt; well, so just the C inside the customers
alone
&gt;&gt; inside the customers alone. That's
right. But but but what I would say I I
think a couple thoughts here. one again
there's so much different work to go do
in code and so you'll see a lot of
others who are for example um building
products that will help you make a quick
little website or something like that or
you know build something like fun um
which is you know you can use Devon for
that but I think that's not necessarily
what we specialize in on the other hand
a lot of what we really really focus on
&gt;&gt; to Russell's point is is is working with
um enterprises governments you know
regulated industries working with
massive massive code bases and trying to
make sense of that and and work in all
of those systems right and so a A lot of
the problems that you have to go deal
with and work on are how do you, you
know, absorb all of the messy context
and the knowledge of this codebase? How
do you work with a massive, you know,
something that has hundreds of thousands
of different files and work across that?
How do you test and iterate against
your, you know, your your existing unit
testing framework or how do you uh, you
know, click around and use these
products yourself and make sure that the
the edits that you made were good. Um,
and that's a lot of what we've always
focused on with cognition. And so you
know some some I mean basically all the
guys that that that you mentioned here
in terms like the foundation labs and so
on we actually partner with them and we
work very closely with them. I think
what we tend to find is that um you know
for for obviously their kind of like
base research and and the work that they
do with models there's there's a ton of
interesting work for us to do together.
Um whereas I think for for a lot of this
work with really enterprise
transformation um you know we we want we
we want to be like on the ground working
very deeply with folks and and and
figuring out with them how h how we use
software to to help them achieve their
goals. So Palanteer uh originally we
created this thing called for deployed
engineers which uh didn't really make
sense to people uh 10 or 15 years ago
and it turns out there was like certain
types of workflows where where you could
build a product to do a lot but then the
forward deployed engineer would actually
have to understand the business value
and and kind of connect the dots and and
then and then take things that they
created that oftentimes go back to the
core so the core gets better so the core
could do it next time. Like do you have
you sound like you have something
similar to this? Do you have a lot of
these? Is that it's a big part of the
value you're providing?
&gt;&gt; It's Yeah. So it's interesting there's
there's some similarities and some
differences for us with sort of the
Palanteer model. So um one of the one of
the interesting differences is that a
lot of times you know our customers they
just use our product on their own even
without us talking to them or without us
discovering them. You know people bring
in our tools and they just start using
them immediately. But once once Devon is
inside an organization you know the
ceiling of what you can accomplish if
you're a worldclass agent manager you
know versus like a you know a new
engineer who's just sort of learning the
tools. It's an enormous delta. And so um
a lot of the there's kind of some
parallels to our business that are more
like a you know kind of a data bricks or
snowflake type thing where you just kind
of get in and then and then people start
using your products more and consuming
more. On the other hand, if you actually
want to go drive major outcomes like
real business change that results in
like structural you know oh I can launch
this entire product line that I wouldn't
have had the capacity to you know
otherwise like that that type of
outcomes. um you know our four deployed
engineers are among the best in the
world at managing agents at really high
scale because that's like exactly what
they they sort of focus on and do every
day. So at Palanteer we had these
frameworks of like like building an
ontology of all the data making it talk
to each other ontology of the processes
and we had all sorts of different
frameworks over time that are conceptual
frameworks would use when you go in. Do
you guys have like your own conceptual
frameworks for business value and do you
have something called ontologies like
how like not to not to get the secret
sauce but other things like this you can
&gt;&gt; we we really look at it from the
perspective of the software development
life cycle. So we go inside an
organization um they they have a way of
doing things right of of developing
software starting from planning and
deciding what they even want to write
understanding all of their existing code
and process to then maybe scoping it out
and and maybe writing some code testing
it fixing it when it's wrong iterating
on it deploying it in production
monitoring it you know there's a pretty
standardized software development life
cycle at this point and what's happening
is agents are just eating more and more
of the cycle and it kind of started with
the writing of the code and now we're
like well past that right and so in fact
one of the more recent products we
shipped is called debon review. It's
because we observe that there's this
totally new bottleneck in the software
development uh in the software
development life cycle that wasn't the
case previously which is there's this
abundance of code being written by AI
now. How can humans even keep up with it
all to understand what's going on?
Again, we work with you know a lot of
like regulated large complex
organizations that are they're running
mission critical systems and you can't
just sort of vibe code you know your way
and like yolo merge uh
&gt;&gt; the treasury shouldn't be vibe coded.
[laughter]
No, it's like actually really important
and and eventually, you know, are we
going to like have English as a source
of truth and and people are just going
to be collaborating on specs? Yes. I
think, you know, March 2026, no, you
still need to understand the code that
you're merging. And so we, you know, a
big a big thing we care about at
Cognition is we're building tools that
are like future looking but still still
meet people where they are, right? We
still want to meet people where they
are. And so Dev and Review, it's uh it's
it's not just having like an AI auto
comment on every PR and say, "Oh, this
was good or not good." It's actually
tools for humans to really deeply
understand huge quantities of AI
generated code.
&gt;&gt; Is there some sense that at some point
one of the AI models if it gets a little
too tricky could like sneak something in
to the things that are being built to
like do something we didn't want it to
do?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So it's a great question.
Obviously, I I think with a lot of these
things, the the the simple answer in
software is you want to be working with
the same review process and the same QA
processes that we all have, right? And
so any any big enough engineering
organization frankly already has to
think about this with their humans, you
know, and and it doesn't have to be on
purpose, obviously. Maybe you
accidentally introduced a security risk
or so on, right? And that's why you have
review and that's why you have QA and
that's why you have user testing and
that's why you have release cycles and
all these other things. And I think um
you know I I I do think this is one of
the one of the things that often comes
up which is like how do you make sure
that um that your agent behaves
correctly which of course is like a very
important problem. The reality is I
think in software
&gt;&gt; we have actually a lot easier or or
maybe at least a lot more grounded uh of
of a path to do that because we have the
same thing already with all of our
humans, right? And so when you work with
Devon for example, Devon is is is making
commits is submitting you know code
diffs and so on. Devon is not allowed to
go and deploy your code to production by
itself or anything like that, right? It
works in all those same systems and has
the same guard rails.
&gt;&gt; And so let's let's just fast forward for
fun a few years in the future. When I
talked to some of the people running the
top labs, they're pretty convinced
things are going to keep getting better
at a pretty high pace for at least two
or three years. It's like kind of like
with Mors law, you can't really see out
what's going to get there five years,
but but see it feels like things are
going to change a lot. Like so so so
tell us about 2028, 2029. Like is there
certain things that just look very
different? There are certain things that
are that are like we have to do now. We
don't have to do it all there. Like what
are the unsolved problems for Devon to
just be be like doing massive projects
on itself in three years?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think a couple shifts. I mean,
one of the obvious ones which I'll just
call out is just much more widespread
usage of all of this and and just good
knowledge on how to use these things. I
think right now, you know, you have this
core group of we'll call it like
agentforward engineers, right? Or agent
forward companies that understand how to
use this and they are seeing these, you
know, 5x 10x productivity gains as a
result. I mean, obviously, you know, all
of these big organizations or these
these companies or governments or things
like that are are seeing those same
results and realizing, wait, we can't
just sit here and be five times slower
and, you know, we have to go learn how
to do this right now. Um, and so that's
really happening. I mean, even this
year, I would say, um, in terms of the
the the continued capabilities gains
that we're going to see, yeah, I mean, I
think there's, um,
&gt;&gt; I think I think the models are going to
get better and better. You know, one of
the stats that people talk about a lot
is this MER report, which basically says
for um each different model that comes
out, roughly how much human work can it
do uh in an automated fashion before you
have to go interrupt it and say, "Oh,
that was wrong. Let's go do this."
Right? And so it's like, you know, just
two or three years ago, the answer was
like 10 seconds or something. You know,
you would have it write one line and
it's like, "All right, the next line is
already wrong. Let's stop here." Right?
And at this point it's already gotten to
the point where it's um in the scale of
you know 10 20 hours um is what the
latest one uh has been. I think opus 4.6
for example I think was around 18 hours.
&gt;&gt; This is always very weird to me because
it's implying that models work in human
time though right which is so weird. Why
do they faster?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So so so the answer they do
typically do the tasks in less time than
a human would and then the 18 hours is
basically this is how long it would take
a human to do that amount of work. Okay.
&gt;&gt; Uh in in between each of the
interruption points, right? and the the
ai might be doing that in in one hour or
two hours or something like that, right?
Um and and the thing that's really crazy
about this stat is
&gt;&gt; you just see it very consistently
double. And I think for the last few
years, it's doubled about four or five
times every year, you know, which is
insane, which means, you know, you wait
two or three months and it's already
doing twice as much work.
&gt;&gt; So the whole world is changing every two
or three months in terms of what's
possible.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And this is this is what we've
what we've kind of seen as well. And I
think we're gonna we're going to see
even more of that. And to to some of
Russell's previous points, the thing
that's kind of interesting for us is
that the form factor of what you want to
deliver or how you want to work with the
AI changes a lot as you're going through
that, right? And so when we're saying,
okay, you do 10 seconds of work,
obviously the answer is you as a human
need to be staring at your file of code
and like shephering it and handholding
it with every single step, right? If
you're talking about it's doing days of
work or weeks of work, now you're
actually giving it whole, you know,
output level tasks of like, hey, you
know, we we really need to go make this
app much faster. Can you go and run this
whole thing and then, you know, do a
smoke test and make sure all the changes
look right and it's going to go off and
do that entire project, right? Versus or
or you know, even even bigger
initiatives of like, yeah, can you
autorespond to all of the um you know,
the upgrades or the potential
vulnerabilities that are coming in with
our reporting and just make sure all of
that, right? Um, so you're gonna see a
lot more, I think, proactive work. Um,
you're gonna see a lot more basically
like event driven kickoff work where
it's it doesn't have to be human that's
that's moderating it every step of the
way.
&gt;&gt; And then and then in terms of like what
does that mean for society or where does
it go? I actually think one thing I'll
go on the record on is I think there's
going to be an explosion in small
businesses. Um, I think AI is actually
like an extremely small business
enabling technology in particular where
you think about what's hard about about
building or starting a small business.
It's you know you don't have the
resources of a large company.
specialization of labor in each part of
the part of the process. And I think AI
it's extraordinarily enabling right
think about you know the quality of
quick legal gut check you can get from
you know from a chatbot from a frontier
lab the quality of you know analysis of
your financials the quality of software
that you build right it's like it's all
coming together to empower each
individual person again if you exercise
that agency to just do so much more on
their own
&gt;&gt; I actually I love this I actually have a
a small thing on the side where I'm
trying to help create tens of thousands
of small business owners so so I'm
totally in line with this this is a
really good theme right right now for us
for us to do what one last thing I want
to ask you guys about the business that
I'm just so impressed by. So I I hired a
lot of the first 200 people of
Palunteer. I spent a lot of time on
talent. Obviously I even hired Scott at
one point a long time ago with one of my
companies with with Vod's help.
&gt;&gt; How did he do how did he do in his very
very very impressive but I did not I did
not see him at the time as someone who
was like a CEO person. So he really grew
a lot which is good. I mean you know
he's like he's learning and growing as
he goes and definitely see him as a CEO
and founder now. Um, but one thing you
guys have done is like a significant
percent of the cognition hires are
actually former founders. So, not only
are you hiring the best people in the
world, you're hiring a ton of former
founders like like why are you doing
that? How are you doing that? Tell us a
little bit about the talent stuff here.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, for sure. No, I mean I I I
think the um I I I think the reality is
we we just have such a massive problem
that we're going after. We're just, you
know, solving all of code. And I think
the way we even started this company is,
you know, Russell was a founder before
this. I was a founder before this. all
of us were, you know, I think of our of
our kind of like initial crew and and
and the idea for us, I think, was
let's make this one the big one, you
know, we're going to go for it all.
We're going to go for the most ambitious
and even I mean the the the play of
solving software engineering feels like
a big enough one, you know, that that we
can all do that together. And and I
think that's a lot of what it comes down
to honestly is just like um yeah are we
working on something and doing something
that's that's that's exciting for for
folks who to your point are are you know
I think a ton of the folks at Cognition
are could could very very easily go off
and start their own companies and get
funded and build their teams and so on
and and and the question I think for us
always has been about um how how do we
make this the place that that that makes
more sense for them to do that
&gt;&gt; and it's it's honestly easier to do that
now than ever before also as a as a
company like I'm thinking you know we
have one team at the company. Uh they're
called special projects engineers and
basically every person on that team is a
former founder like every single one.
And and they they do they do uh you know
a really interesting mix of engineering
work of product work of talking to
customers of driving commercial outcomes
you know the problem space to to your
point is so big that actually if you're
again a high agency person going to take
initiative and you're working at a small
fast growing company with with a you
know with the problem space so big that
you know your only constraint is like
your own ambition. Well, it does seem
like there's this renaissance or
revolution going on in the world where
the capabilities are doubling every two
or three months and like this is a place
you can come and be around some of the
other smartest people in the world who
are part of growing something with that
which I guess is pretty fun for people.
&gt;&gt; We had a good time.
&gt;&gt; One one thing about the the interview
process or the selection process to your
point which I think is kind of
interesting to call out is I think um
you know one or two years ago I think a
lot of people had this mentality in
terms of how you interview of like okay
there's all these AI tools. How do we
interview people in a way that um you
know how do we make sure that people
aren't using AI while we're interviewing
them because we're and I think
&gt;&gt; that has totally flipped honestly I
think that was wrong right and and I
think if if you're asking the question
of like how do we evaluate people on
exactly the thing that AI can already do
that's kind of the wrong and and and so
so so you know I think for for us and
this has always been the case for us you
know our interview process has always
been you can use as much AI as you want
to use you know it's just like we're
going to give you a few hours, just
build build your whole own product
surface, right? And build build your own
um a lot of these are projects that
frankly is like if you were trying to do
this by hand, you would not be able to
get done in a few hours. So, you kind of
have to use AI for this, right? But but
in reality, what we actually want to
test is in addition to to kind of how
familiar you are with these tools, what
we actually want to test is is yeah,
what what do you think is the right
thing to build or how do you make these
product decisions? How do you make these
trade-offs? How do you decide or collect
information about what you should be
doing? Um and and and so we found that
that's that's helped us a lot.
&gt;&gt; I love it. Well, we started the American
Optimist podcast to try to push back on
cynicism and pessimism in our country.
What's the best case for an optimistic
AI future? What what inspires you about
what you're seeing?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, it's a great question. You
know, so so funny enough, I think
recently we had this whole catrini piece
come out u which I thought was frankly
ridiculous of of I mean I think it's
it's I think it gets a lot of the the
basic economics wrong is maybe a simple
way to put it. And and it's it's I think
it it goes off of some of the same
things that we are calling out which is
it's going to be easier to build things,
it's going to be cheaper and so on and
then somehow concludes that that you
know the outcome is going to be much
worse for all of us. And I think maybe
that that you know from from a from an
economics perspective there's a
distinction between what is um real
versus nominal you know deflation which
I think is maybe one one thing to call
out here which is of course prices are
going to get cheaper but why should that
mean that we're all worse off right? Um
but but but I I I think the simple thing
that I'd call out about AI is I think we
right now are at a point where so many
of the things that we want to build and
so many of the things that we want to do
are just hard bottlenecks by pure
execution, right? And I think we're
pretty quickly getting to a point where
that's not the case. Um and my my
favorite line on this is uh you know our
co-founder Walden says this, which is
for so long we've all been living in
Minecraft survival mode and now we're
going to be in creative mode. Um, and
and I think that's really I I I think
that's what we're going to see over the
next honestly the next 5 or 10 years is
getting to a point where you're really
only limited to your ideas and to your
imagination where you can kind of just
turn things into reality and and I think
that's going to be a great future.
&gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, that inspire not to leave
it on. Thanks, guys. Cool. Thanks for
having us. Thanks for having us. Yeah.
