原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5q0VER_rt0Q

The biggest area of impact AI's had thus
far has been improving individual or
small team productivity. There's
trillions of dollars of software
infrastructure that's been built over
decades that underpins the US and the
global economy. AI impacting integrating
with this whole pool of critical systems
and [music]
production environments is going to take
a long time and new business models to
do. And those business models are
debatable across different categories.
But this big $250 billion plus cut of IT
and security services, I just think is
is a cool place to to start that
pursuit. We have to remember 10 to 15
years ago, your internal IT team had to
be standing next to a server to do
something with it. This model has
improved over the last 10 to 15 years
for the most obvious reasons. internet,
cloud, remote work, software generally
getting better. As all of these
technological trends continue and
evolve, this like next iteration of the
MSP space can just take on a new form
where it's very clearly impacting how
companies operate through well-built
software systems.
Today we're joined by Peter Doyle, the
CEO of Treeeline. Uh, Treeline is a
modern take on the managed service
provider space and really the IT
services space which a lot of people
don't realize this is a sneaky big
market. It's a hundred billion dollar
market and in many respects is the
backbone of the US software economy and
technology economy bringing these
solutions and software providers to uh
to the small and mid-size business. Uh,
but that's just the beginning of the
story. Peter, why don't you tell us a
little bit more about what Treeine does?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Thanks, Joe. Glad to uh glad
to be here with you. Um that was sort of
the first thing that fascinated me about
this market is it's probably the biggest
category in technology generally like
this whole cut of IT and security and
now compliance services but it's
probably the least understood especially
from the Silicon Valley perspective. Um,
and so what we're trying to set out to
do is basically say, well, with modern
technology, modern tools, and now AI,
how can we essentially reinvent this
category, not fully depart from the
services model, but inject software and
automation and AI that sits next to
humans to fundamentally transform this
market and the model of how we service
end customers. And like I kind of
recognize that um the scope and sprawl
of what's within this category is is
rather large and that's why it's
traditionally been a services category.
And so a traditional managed service
provider or MSP will offer employee and
asset life cycle um onboarding and
offboarding users, help desk support for
all of your employees who need help,
insider threat management, endpoint
security, uh helping you get through
compliance, observation periods, and
maintenance periods. SOCK 2, HIPPA,
CMMC, ISO, Fed Ramp, like the scope is
huge.
&gt;&gt; Every acronym you can think of.
[laughter]
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I made sure to start
out with all the acrony
but basically you can't
&gt;&gt; sassify that like you have to have
people in the loop and you still have to
have technicians and expertise sitting
alongside software but instead of those
technicians just using a bunch of
software tools, how can software
fundamentally and and now automation and
AI be a core part of that product and
how we service customers and that's what
we're setting out to build. Yeah, it's
interesting. You talked a little bit
about software and SAS and I remember
when we first talked about this company
uh you know a couple years ago we were
on a run through the Presidio and you
turned to me uh my heart rate was about
a 178 and you said Joe you know SAS is
dead um which was a very silly take for
two uh venture capitalists on run to be
talking about but you know it was
interesting you kind of you you talked
about that you said hey there's a
misframing here um you know people are
kind of throwing everything out um with
the bathwater with that analysis talk to
me a little bit about the model that you
settled on and why you think it's
differentiated at this moment in time
versus just everything should be an AI
agent.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that was that was definitely meant
to be provocative, but it's kind of
&gt;&gt; it was the perfect time to be
provocative.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. For for everything that's in
the news now, but it's it's kind of apt
especially for this category. Like SAS
has been the predominant business model
for software delivery uh for a long time
for obvious reasons. Recurring, high
margin, near endlessly scalable. Um, but
in a funny way, a lot of categories,
most I would argue, and especially the
one that we're in, uh, has too much SAS
in a funny way, leverages too much
software. And what I mean by that is
when you look underneath the hood of
these businesses, like even the best
managed service providers that are um,
operating right now is very messy, like
even the best ones. And so you have all
these customers that all all want the
same thing from you but have their own
uniquenesses, their own idiosyncrasies.
And then on the other side within the
MSPs, you just have a pool of
technicians that are kind of waiting to
help your customers do something in a
reactive manual way, different
expertises, different levels of
expertise. And so to stitch all of that
together, they need to use they use on
average 30 to 35 SAS and software tool
point solutions to communicate with
customers, monitor environments,
communicate internally, everything. Um
the the interesting thing there is that
like at first when we set out to to
start Treeeline uh with with my
co-founder Hussein, um the initial idea
for only a couple weeks was oh let's
build a a SAS tool. Um, we think that
automation and now AI is going to be
important for this category. Let's sell
it to the category.
&gt;&gt; Um, and like the the funny thing with
that is like very quickly we just
realized that we didn't want to be the
the 36th software tool and to actually
redefine and and try to reinvent this
space from the ground up with all of
these modern technologies in mind. we
kind of needed to go into like the guts
of the offering and the guts of how
these technicians operate to actually
try to build a new model that that
services customers better.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And and say a little bit more
about that. Like why do you have to go
into the guts? Why can't you just go and
offer a software platform to the MSP and
just say, "Hey, we're going to make this
all clean for you. We'll sit on top of
your ConnectWise or whatever their core
system is and and make it make it
better." Like what about this system
makes it such that you need to own those
workflows yourself? Yeah, this is one of
my my soap boxes for a long time because
like it's one thing to buy software and
for a software company to say we have
all these customers, but very few
customers actually implement and
configure the software the way that you
as a company even expect them to. And
that's true in spades in this market.
Those 35 tools aren't operating and
firing on all cylinders. They're kind of
like halfbaked, half configured,
purchased 10 years ago. Here's a new one
that's purchased that overlaps with this
old one. It's just kind of a mess. Um,
and by extension like these businesses
are 15, 20, sometimes 30 plus years old.
They have all of these legacy processes.
They have data just like spiraling
everywhere, very siloed. And so it's not
just like let's implement a new software
tool, spend a couple weeks doing it. You
really have to look at the processes of
how these companies operate, the like
initial assumptions they have when they
start using a new tool, but then also
like question them originally. Why do
you have these processes? Why do you do
this? And often times we find that the
answer is well it's because we've been
doing it for 15 years and so like change
management is hard. Why would we change?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And as you think about like those
workflows you're trying to go after and
you know maybe this is interesting for
for Treeeline but also for others that
are kind of going after this like
automate services work space like how do
you think about the software that you
need to build kind of in-house versus
maybe thirdparty tools and the way to
kind of go and capture and iterate on
workflows? Yeah, that's a that's a good
question because we definitely can't
build everything especially in this
world. Like we need to partner with
Microsoft, Google, Octa, security tools.
Like maybe there's some part of our
infrastructure that we just don't want
to build. Like some some parts of a
ticketing system. Like we don't need to
build everything, but we need to make
sure that the tools that we use and we
partner with are either best of breed or
just very extensible to plug into
everything we're building in a
customized way. But like even more so,
the the way that I think about it is
like you have all of these modern AI
companies and very quickly they realized
that they need very strong customer
support, probably professional services,
an implementation team or a bunch of
implementation partners. Like we just um
onboarded a new ERP system and they
immediately threw us to like this Zoom
video of of 10 implementation partners
from a company that I I'd never heard of
before, but that's how they do it. And
so uh like the other way you you look at
it is like this concept of a forward
deployed engineer is now very much in
vogue. Like all of this is an admission
that AI software as powerful as it is
it's just as hard to implement and use
effectively especially in like critical
systems. And so
&gt;&gt; we share that view, but we kind of take
the inverse where
&gt;&gt; the day one of Treeline was a services
company, right? We hadn't built or
written any software, but
&gt;&gt; over time, if we do this right with
well-built software, um, automation, AI
agents, we can continue to pull what
we're doing more and more towards being
a software company, right? probably not
it probably doesn't make sense to like
go all the way to being a SAS company
because we need humans and technicians
in the loop. Um but as close as possible
to getting there enables scalability and
just gives a way way better product to
the customer and we can do that in an
iterative way. It's not like one big SAS
app or or software application or one
big deployment. It's like very iterative
and compounding.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Is that the final kind of, you
know, bastion of durable, you know,
defensibility against the, you know, the
the, you know, it seems like
all-encompassing, you know, mega labs
and everything else out there. Is it the
fact that you have these humans
delivering the tools? Like how do you
see this like kind of competitive
dynamic playing out with other players?
Um, and and really like where you hang
your hat from a durability standpoint?
&gt;&gt; I I think I think so. I mean, you can
still like there will be a lot of modern
software and AI companies that can win
big, but you kind of look at what
they're doing behind the scenes. It's
automation software and AI software.
Like every SAS website you go on,
there's like a canvas and you drag a
node on there and that's like an
integration and you like drag it to
another node and that's another software
platform. Like it's all automation and
workflow builds versus, you know, here
is a CRM or here is a system of record.
And so our view is that whatever way
automation software and AI like fits
your market, go for it. But these
services categories, like I just
fundamentally believe for the most part
that it's just going to be really hard
to sell pure play software into these
categories.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Maybe switching gears, like you
came from like a venture background.
It's obviously where you and I met. Um,
&gt;&gt; you know, you evaluated all these
different markets. what about this
market made you so excited to go and
run, you know, leave your very cushy job
as a venture capitalist um and and
decide to get into into found founder
mode?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um there was sort of one core
insight that um you know, Hussein and I
continued to have as we would we'd just
like chop it up and talk about whatever.
Like Hussein and I have been friends for
for 15 years. Um, and so we just kind of
like constantly catch up and talk about
work, life, gripe, gripe about our jobs,
whatever it might be. But, um, he had a
lot of context too on the IT and
security services space. Just he came
from originally a security company
before going to Brex and he just was
generally familiar with it
&gt;&gt; and from the venture capital seat. I was
looking at a lot of software that sold
into the space and there was I think one
poor insight that really uh snowballed
where everything else snowballed from
and that is this managed service
provider space how it and security
services is delivered today is at least
a decade behind where generally modern
technology is which is ironic because
this is a technology category and with
the pace of AI and just software very
quickly getting better and better. That
gap is only widening and we kind of we
didn't really have like this huge long
list of workflows we were ready to build
or AI agents we were ready to build and
we didn't have everything fleshed out on
the business model. We kind of just like
saw this huge gap and realized that
there was just a lot of white space to
navigate into building a big company.
Um, so it was really really from there
and then you know naturally you just get
into it and find and navigate to the
right way. But we don't we we definitely
didn't start day one with this like
perfect pristine view of here's the
two-year road map that we're going to
execute on and like here's where we want
to be by 2030.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And obviously you started with you
know kind of a dualprong strategy of
kind of inorganic growth partnership
with you know uh MSPs and also alongside
you know strong kind of organic growth
and what you want to do there. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Why why why even start with the
inorganic strategy at all? Like what's
the advantages that come with you know
partnering with an existing firm um and
modernizing versus just starting from
scratch as most technology companies do.
We very much want to build treeline by
combining
strong industry insider expertise with
like new point of view and perspective
for lack of better phrase uh industry
outsider points of view. Um, and so very
quickly once we incorporated the
company, we wanted to merge, we did
merge with a couple select traditional
service providers, less to tap into
their revenue and and their cash flows
and more to
&gt;&gt; say, well, we need strong industry
operators, we need experienced
technicians because the technician team
is very much a part of of our offering.
Um, and over time we'll we'll certainly
continue to opportunistically
look to merge with and partner with
additional traditional service providers
and bring them into the fold of how we
operate. Um but over time and and and
starting even now like we're investing
heavily into organic growth because if
we're building a scalable offering and
company and differentiating in an
otherwise undifferiated category where
it's essentially commoditized to a very
low level of service,
&gt;&gt; why not invest into organic growth and
just like speak to the end customer
ourselves? And I think that's kind of
the like you you hear a lot of talk
about traditional rollups and now AI
rollups and that means a lot of
different things to different people. My
view is that overindexing too much on um
let's just call it an inquisitive growth
strategy implies that you're the crux of
your business is focused on financial
engineering and using AI as like yet
another private equity tool to improve
margins. And I believe that can work. We
just want to try to reinvent this
category. Yeah. And systemically
innovate versus build a higher margin
traditional service provider. Like
there's a much longer compounding
roadmap we're going after.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And maybe like it'd be so
interesting to tease this out too for
the customer. Okay. Obviously people
talk a lot about AI rollups and like you
know adding you know adding technology
to traditional services organizations
but like how does this manifest for your
customers? like what's how do we change
the way that they consume kind of IT
services?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. And again, this is why I
like this model cuz it's not some
singular software application. We're
building in multiple fronts. Where we've
started is behind the scenes, how can we
improve how technicians operate and
respond to any customer request, but
also be more proactive. And so what that
looks like is a lot of internal
technician facing tooling to say well
any ticket issue alert whatever it might
be that comes into the system when and
where can uh automation and AI agents at
the very least augment and at the most
replace like the need for a manual
workflow. The core flow of how
traditional um service providers operate
is they have a bunch of customers and
those customers just throw a bunch of
issues and tickets and requests to the
MSP. That can be we're onboarding
multiple people on Monday. Can you get
them set up in all of these systems? It
could be a automated machine generated
alert from like CrowdStrike or some some
security tool that says you need to to
look into this vulnerability or this
issue. And so the technicians are kind
of sitting there waiting for one of
these. Um, and it's rather reactive. Um,
and so even if it stays reactive, we can
equip them with a lot of really
interesting information and context and
automation and agentic tools to help
them um, be really efficient with that,
but then also even more so be way more
proactive. Like we noticed that this was
a problem before you submitted a ticket.
And so that goes to your question like
customers see right off the bat improved
service. um and just like a better
experience like my issue was resolved
immediately before I had to say
something or it was resolved in 1 minute
whereas historically it took 30 that we
will continue to iterate on forever. Um
but because of our model we can also
build towards the customer. what
interfaces, what information, what
additional products and services can we
sell um and equip our customers with to
give them better visibility into what
we're doing to help them leverage um AI
themselves. There's like all these
ancillary categories and ways that we
can engage with customers where once we
quiet as much as we can the like IT and
security noise like you can never fully
quiet it but like then where does the
customer relationship go and how do we
deepen it uh in in really interesting
ways.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You know, we've talked a lot
about, you know, the kind of false
choice that organizations have, right?
You either to your point on just talking
to the designation workflow in an
outsource manner. You have an outsource
provider providing IT services. Um, or
you have a big complex internal IT
infrastructure and you handle these
tickets on your own and you build all
these things yourself. Like why has that
been the choice organizations have to
make? Is that the right choice or you
know why why is this the way that's
operated? There's no generalizable right
answer, but like the reason why those
are the only two options is like kind of
a vestigial trait of where the industry
came from. Um like we have to remember
10 to 15 years ago, uh your internal IT
team had to be standing next to a server
to do something with it or your
traditional MSP or the precursor to what
an MSP is today had to be within driving
distance. like this model has improved
over the last 10 to 15 years for the
most obvious reasons. Internet, cloud,
yeah,
&gt;&gt; remote work, software generally getting
better. Um, but basically it's it's kind
of stayed the same where it's like still
this call-in response from the customer
to the MSP or the customer realizing
that because of their scale or
complexity or for whatever reason, they
want internal people. And so you just
still have these two options. And our
view is that as all of these
technological trends continue and evolve
and now with with AI progressing as
rapidly as it is, this like next
iteration of the MSP space can just take
on a new form where it's very clearly
impacting how companies operate through
well-built software systems. And that's
what we're trying to offer to the
category. You know, something else that
I I found interesting that you talked
about is like the the biggest kind of,
you know, hindrance to AI progress and,
you know, isn't exactly the model
progress, but it's actually, you know,
the rate of kind of integration into
core systems. Um, maybe talk a little
bit about that and like how the treeline
model, you know, allows you to take it
most advantage here. The biggest area of
impact AI's had thus far has been
brand new like vibecoded or otherwise
apps, new applications or these models
improving individual or small team
productivity, right? Um, the biggest
well of impact that I think is is just
starting to be tapped is there's
trillions of dollars of software
infrastructure that's been built over
decades that underpins the US and the
global economy. AI impacting,
integrating with um modernizing and in
any way like interacting with with this
whole pool of critical systems and um
production environments is going to take
a long time and new business models to
do. And those business models are
debatable across different categories.
But this big $250 billion plus cut of IT
and security services, I just think is
is a cool place to to start that pursuit
with everyone else that's trying to do
it in different areas. And it again goes
back to like digging into the to the
guts of the industry. The way that we
dig into the guts of the business model
and say what can we integrate with, what
should we replace, what software do we
buy, what do we build, like it's messy
inherently, which is again why we need
this unique model.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And when it for the customer, does
this lead to lower costs, better
service, both?
&gt;&gt; I think the idea is is both certainly
over time. Um where as we continue to do
um uh everything that we we set out to
do on the core IT and security front,
like yes, we want to pass on a lot of
those savings to the customer, but also
like I mentioned, just evolve the
relationship. It's not like, oh, we'll
take down your your per user cost and
we'll just kind of quiet everything down
and that's our our business. The hope is
that we still grow not necessarily in
like a a dollar value way but just like
in a relationship depth depth way with
the customer and the byproduct to that
is like yeah changing pricing models and
engagements with businesses. Um but also
yes along the way like every pursuit
that we have in the category should be
what's in it for the customer? Why do
they care and why are we doing this for
them? as you're architecting, you know,
the the platform, how do you think about
like the right way to do that when
everything on the kind of underlying
underlying fundamental side is changing
so rapidly like as AI models improve or
as the different providers improved?
Like how do you think about like the
right way to structure all of this such
that you don't have to just rebuild
everything every six months? Yeah, it's
it's a good question because the way
that we're trying to architect
everything is like yes, if if AI
progress stopped fully today, we would
still have a 10 plus year road map to
execute on. Um but to the the earlier
imagery I suppose I was giving of
pulling what we're doing from being a a
services play to as close to a software
one as possible. It's basically just
let's fold in new technology as it comes
down the pipe and as we can leverage it.
So maybe today there's a AI agent that
we can see wanting to build, but perhaps
the AI models and capabilities aren't
there yet to reliably allow us to put it
into production. But maybe in a year
it'll be very easy to do so. And that's
kind of how we want to like not only um
proof ourselves um future proof
ourselves from whatever happens with
with AI and just modern technology, but
like actually be on the forefront of it.
Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Day one it comes out adopt it and
implement it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Do you think um you know these
kind of AI rollups or these integrating
strategies like can become venture scale
outcomes?
&gt;&gt; My hunch is is no. I do think that to
build a a compounding business that is
actually continuously innovating while
compounding. You can't just rely on that
that acquisitive growth. But again like
I said earlier like it's not to say that
those models can't be successful. Like
we look at these businesses all day
long. there's a lot of lowhanging fruit.
There's a lot within operations and
within what goes into COGS and operating
expenses that AI can
&gt;&gt; um brush away. Um but again, that's just
not in our view, it's it's a little bit
more of an incremental approach to
&gt;&gt; creating equity value versus actually
creating some outsized opportunity to to
change the space.
&gt;&gt; Do you think there will still be a
traditional MSP in 10 years or 15 years
time?
&gt;&gt; I I do. I mean, these industries move so
slowly. Despite, you know, us being in
Silicon Valley and watching all of these
um wild takes of how fast AI is moving,
however right or wrong they are, these
industries take a long, long time to
catch up. The composition of the
industry will change. I think there will
be way less fragmentation, bigger
winners, but that long tail is just
always going to be there. You still have
a lot of MSPs out there that are driving
to their customers and that are
&gt;&gt; uh you know, like don't even have an
email address. server racks or whatever.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, call me. I'll go over. I'll fix
it. Like advising their customers not to
move to the cloud if even if it's like
the most obvious thing from our seat to
do so.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. If you fast forward that same time
frame 10, 15 years or even longer, like
what's the the biggest version of
Teline? Is is it an expansion kind of
across it, outside of it? Like what's
the business look like in in that? Yeah,
I mean we we consistently debate
internally what to even call the future
of it cuz like we don't want to rely on
this like MSP or traditional um um
phrasing because like yes the core way
that we currently work with businesses
is within IT and security and now
compliance but just over time what does
becoming the most impactful highest
trust thirdparty partner for end
businesses look like? What is that? And
so there's just kind of this huge area
of
&gt;&gt; like how these businesses can adopt
modern software and AI, what they're
going to need in the future once we
quiet some of these things. Um, I could
I could sort of sit here and pontificate
for a while. But the fun thing is that
like we don't really need to figure it
out just yet. It's just let's let's
continue to be on the forefront of of
what we'reffecting now within this core
space. And a nice byproduct of that is
we're now capturing so much um good like
information and data around how we
operate, how we interact with our
customers and we can do so much with
that information over time and through
building trust with with the customers
we serve.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So maybe going back to the like
kind of false choice between like
internal IT teams and outsourced uh MSPs
like I find it interesting that you went
after like this outsourced problem. Um
why did you pick the outsourced problem?
um why is it you why do you think this
is the right answer and like what's the
what's the biggest issue that we're
really solving for here with with these
providers?
&gt;&gt; There should definitely be next
generation products that try to replace
legacy ticketing systems and and tooling
systems and you of course naturally are
seeing a lot of that um being invested
into within Silicon Valley and and Dre's
made a lot of those investments and we
can integrate and partner with those no
problem. Our view is that even for
modern venture-back tech companies, but
also for just the rest of the US,
manufacturing, healthcare, nonprofits,
everyone needs really strong IT and
security. And if we have a really shiny
new modern um point solution or
ticketing system, like the adoption rate
outside of Silicon Valley is going to is
going to be low for a long time. So
let's meet the industry where they are
um still in many ways look um like that
traditional provider but behind the
scenes and and slowly over time pull
these customers forward with us and you
can't just do that I believe by selling
a software product to them. when you
were evaluating the market that you went
after with Treeeline like this MSP IT
services space was there any like kind
of like spectrum of you know least
interesting kind of services you know
businesses to try to go and bring AI to
to most interesting like was there some
sort of framework that you developed
that helped you kind of pick this market
or was it just like hey I know this MSP
market I think there's an opportunity
here let's go after it it was the former
but retroactively I I realized a lot of
reasons why it's a good space because
there's a spectrum of some services
categories where technology and software
can barely move the needle like uh
someone going to your house and fixing a
pipe like the HVAC space, but then ones
on the other end of the spectrum that
are like really susceptible to AI coming
in and and wiping it away. Um and I
think that the MSP space is, you know,
maybe not squarely in the middle, but
kind of in this this middle pack where
there is and will continue to be so much
complexity to how we we operate within
the market. Um, but we're not so far
over on this end of the spectrum where
in five or 10 years we're at risk of AI
like wiping this away like it security
compliance services uh is going to be
thorny for as far as I can see.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So you talked a lot about how you
know treeine can drive adoption within
you know obviously your company and the
tools that you're using. Um it's been
fascinating to kind of observe the big
labs obviously anthropic you know
talking about publicly or openai talking
about publicly about the four deployed
engineers that they have and how they're
building different tools for their
larger enterprise customers like what
does that kind of tell you about you
know the way that adoption is working um
and how you're how these big companies
are accelerating AI right now I I was
glad to see it because I really don't
think businesses should be afraid to
have people services as a part of their
offering to the market and even if you
have these leading frontier labs going
into Goldman Sachs with a hundred
people. They're recognizing that yes,
their their growth rate and their scale
is is unprecedented, but they're still
realizing that they need to throw people
at the problem. And so, we're
internalizing that, too. But we're not
reluctantly doing it. And I don't think
they are either, but it's more just we
need this and we think that we can um
still hit scale and act and operate like
what a traditional software company has
operated like with people in the loop.
And I think that that's just like an
important lesson and realization for a
lot of companies that are building right
now to have.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. Spicy take time. What
companies should be most afraid of the
labs?
I think that the companies that don't
have um wide company appeal and usage
are are are most at risk because to my
earliest point um and wide company
appeal and usage in the sense of like
wide adoption across a large enterprise
&gt;&gt; wide adoption and just entrenched in how
a company as a an organism operates.
That's just really hard to rip out. like
whether it's a system of record or
whether it's this or that. Like if
everyone's got a seat and everyone's
using it, um that's just innately very
sticky and very hard for a a model
company itself to replace those
companies will probably just use the
capabilities that the model companies
have. But individual and team- based
productivity is skyrocketing with these
products. Um, I see it within Treeline
and I just like see it with with my my
cohort of of um um friends and and
colleagues like that is a very shaky
disruptive area. Um, and if you're
swiping a credit card to buy a few seats
for your team or or for yourself and and
it's something that's like not core to
how your company as a whole operates, I
think that's where you're going to be in
trouble.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And do you think this uh whole SAS
is dead thing is overblown? How do you
how do you kind of see this? I know
that's where we started our conversation
with our run and you saying it is. So,
do you still believe that?
&gt;&gt; I I do. I I think that like I I believe
in uh the future and like the overall
power of of AI and where it's going.
That's not to be discounted, but just
how the world slowly moves incrementally
to adopt this change is just going to be
the biggest constraint. And that's just
going to take way way longer. And I do
think that it's harder to sit um in San
Francisco and like being on Twitter and
actually clock that in the right way.
There's just like a natural constraint
to humans changing and that's just going
to be a huge limiting factor.
&gt;&gt; So it's dead but not dead quite yet.
It's going to take a while.
&gt;&gt; Ask me in 20 years.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Okay. 20 years to [laughter]
inform my stock picking strategies. Um
okay, quick uh quick lightning round
maybe to finish us off here. Um if you
were in a Harry Potter house, which one
would it be?
&gt;&gt; Uh I know it's over said Gryffindor.
Okay. Best run in San Francisco and best
trail run in Marin.
&gt;&gt; The 10mi loop. Uh starting at the east
side of the panhandle all the way to
Waterbback. Uh in Marin it'd be the um
Tennessee Valley 5 mile loop.
&gt;&gt; What's your shampoo of choice?
&gt;&gt; Uh I was going to say Dr. Browners, but
that's the body wash.
&gt;&gt; Good. So you're using body wash in your
whole body. Next next question.
[laughter]
Um the best book you've read in the last
12 months.
&gt;&gt; Count Christo.
&gt;&gt; Counter Money Cristo again. Um, and your
favorite song that you've found
recently?
&gt;&gt; No song specifically, but that whole new
Fred Again album.
&gt;&gt; Yep. Favorite partner in Treason
Horowitz.
&gt;&gt; No comment.
&gt;&gt; And with that, thank you, Peter,
[laughter] for coming on the FOB.
&gt;&gt; Thanks. Appreciate it.
&gt;&gt; Y
[music]
