原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NwDa4m6sSGw

at unprecedented scale. Next speaker is,
ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Alexander
Wong, chief AI officer at Meta, the
founder of Scale AI. Alexander Wong
built the data infrastructure that
powers much of the modern AI industry
before joining Meta as chief AI officer.
So, with a round of applause, please
welcome Mr. Alexander Wong.
Thank you so much for having me.
Namaste. Uh, it's fair to say my
upbringing wasn't typical. My parents
were physicists in a town called Los
Alamos in New Mexico. Los Alamos is a
government lab town where for decades
scientists have come to push the
boundaries of what's possible in
mathematics and supercomputing in human
genome studies, vaccine research, space
explorations, and material science. My
mother studies how plasma behaves inside
stars. At the dinner table, we talk
about physics problems, scientific
trade-offs, the reasoning behind how
systems work. One kid in my town made
huge balls of plasma in their garage for
a science fair project. You know, normal
high school stuff. Growing up in a place
like Los Alamos leaves two things deeply
ingrained in you. A belief that anything
is possible and that science should
serve society.
Those ideas are what led me to study AI
while I was I was at college at MIT.
They led me to start my own company,
Scale AI. And last year they led me to
Meta where I am now the chief AI
officer.
If you believe that anything is
possible, Meta is one of the few
companies with the resources, talent,
and ambition to push the science of AI
forward at scale.
If you want to make technology that
serves society, Meta has an incredible
opportunity to get this technology into
people's lives. Three and a half billion
people use at least one of our apps
every day. That blows my mind. It's more
than half a billion people in India
alone. People are already using our AI
to do amazing things. Across India,
creators use our AI to automatically
translate reels into the language of the
person watching. Small businesses talk
to customers through WhatsApp business
agents that they create in 10 minutes on
their phones, and they use our Genai
tools to create ads and reach customers
way more efficiently than they ever
could before. And India has world-class
developers building genius things to
solve societal challenges.
For example, there are more than 20
million people with disabilities in
India who are locked out of education,
jobs, and digital services because the
digital world wasn't designed for them.
So, I stem built voice first AI powered
infrastructure that helps people with
disabilities to learn, discover careers,
and complete digital tasks
independently, like converting textbooks
into usable formats or giving
personalized career guidance that takes
into account their disability. In
healthcare, researchers at Ashoka
University used our SAM 3 model which is
trained on billions of natural images to
speed up the identification and
segmentation of cancer tumors and at
risk organs. Their model ENOSAG can help
radiologists and radiology oncology
teams do in seconds what it takes to do
manually.
The beauty of generalpurpose models is
the same technology that can segment
tumors in the brain can segment leaves
to help farmers assess the health of
their crops as Agri Point has done.
We recently open sourced our omnilingual
models which recognize speech across
more than 1,600 languages and can
rapidly adapt to new languages with just
a few audio samples.
It's not a fantasy that in a few years
we'll have real time voicetovoice
translation for every spoken language on
earth. Now build that into your glasses.
Real-time translation in any language
just for you. That's transformative.
Perhaps most especially in countries
like India where so many languages are
spoken.
In fact, language is an area where we're
collaborating with the Indian government
on through its AI coach platform. We're
providing data sets in 10 major Indian
languages so people can build AI models
that deeply understand Indian languages
and contexts.
I'm sure you're used to people from big
tech world making lots of grand but
vague assertions about what AI will be
able to do. But we don't have to be
vague. People use our AI right here,
right now. They're getting value from it
and they're building amazing things with
it. And that gives us confidence about
what we're building towards. We're
releasing new models this year with the
first coming in the next couple of
months. These will be deeply integrated
with our products in a way we're really
excited about. We're optimistic about
the trajectory we're on. The first
models will be good and as the year goes
on, I think we're going to be pushing
the frontier.
Our vision is personal super
intelligence.
AI that knows you, your goals, your
interests, and helps you with whatever
you're focused on doing. It serves you,
whoever you are, wherever you are.
We all lead busy lives. I'm sure you'd
want to do more if only you had the time
and head space. That's how I think about
personal super intelligence. Say you
want to be healthier. Your personal AI
could help you see through a personal
health plan covering diet, exercise, and
sleep, and your daily routine.
or you have a project you'd like to get
done, like putting on an event, it can
track your progress, reach out to
venues, arrange invites, remind you of
things you haven't considered, and more.
If you love to go fishing or paint or
want to travel more, it can help free
you up so you can do more of these
things. And it can give you advice when
you need it and or help you show up as a
better friend or in your community.
It won't just do your admin. It'll be an
extension of you so you can be you more.
I get that some people will worry
uh what companies that what companies
like Meta really want is to get you
hooked and leave you passively staring
at screens, but the whole point of
personal super intelligence is the
opposite. It's about helping you be more
active in your life, in pursuing your
goals, and deepening your relationships.
I know people are going to be skeptical
when I say we're doing we're going to do
this work responsibly. But you don't
have to take us at our word, take us at
our incentives. This is a competitive
space, which is why we're seeing so much
innovation. Given how intimately your
personal AI will know you, people aren't
going to hire us for the job if we're
not doing it responsibly.
Our AI needs to work the way we say it
does, as well as we say it does, and as
safely and as securely as you need it
to. It needs to help you in your life.
And if it doesn't, people simply won't
use it. We'll lose customers. We'll lose
public trust, and we'll lose out to our
competitors.
That's why we're transparent about our
models. We publish model cards and
evaluation benchmarks and data so you
can see how they work, their intended
use, and how we assess their
performance. And as they get more
advanced, we're looking at ways to share
even more. It's why we invest in the
science of model evaluation, both
improving the existing tests and
building new ones for risks we haven't
yet confronted.
And it's why over many years, we've
developed ways to identify and mitigate
potential risks before we release a
model through risk assessments, scaled
evaluations, red teaming, and
fine-tuning. And we can monitor
aggregate trends in how people use AI in
our apps. So we have a feedback loop
that can flag potential risks and help
us improve our models.
As the models improve, the governance
around them has to keep pace. So we're
innovating with how they learn and apply
principles and how they're tested and
evaluated using AI to strengthen checks
and balances.
Realizing the full promise of AI is as
much a matter of getting policy right as
it is investment.
There are four building blocks for AI.
Talent, energy, data, and compute.
Governments and industry need to work
together
to make sure there's access to each so
we can realize AI's potential and do it
in a way that means you can build for
your needs, not ours.
That's in part about having bold
national AI strategies and policies that
encourage innovation, not patchworks of
inconsistent regulations that make it
harder. But above all, it's about
collaboration between public and private
sectors to deliver these four building
blocks and to design and deploy AI that
works for your citizens and your
economies.
I don't want these amazing technologies
to be one-sizefits-all. I want them to
serve your needs designed for the
challenges and opportunities that are
unique to India to societies across the
global south and all over the world. I
want them to serve you as an individual.
No matter who you are, where you live,
what language you speak, or what culture
you're a part of. That's only going to
be possible if the public and private
sector are on the same side. We need to
be partners working together in a spirit
of openness and collaboration
and with a sense of shared ambition. I
truly believe we're on the cusp of a
moment where really anything is
possible.
We want to work with you to build AI
that serves our societies. I hope you'll
work with us. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Thank you, Mr. Alexander Wang, our
heartful gratitude to you for your
remarks, for sharing your findings as
well. And well your vision for AI and
innovation, it does inspire many
