原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PCypBUVhff8

This reactor in Houston, Texas,
represents a whole new approach to
chemical manufacturing. We make
chemicals in a completely new way. We
started off by making hydrogen peroxide.
Now we sell products for water
treatment, national defense,
infrastructure, agriculture, you name
it, we make a chemical for it.
&gt;&gt; The story of Cyogen is as scrappy as it
gets. It all started with this prototype
built out of PVC pipes the founders
bought from Home Depot.
&gt;&gt; In its heyday, this did 12,000 bucks a
month in revenue. Fast forward to now,
Cyogen is a billiondoll company shipping
out tanker trucks of products that power
critical US industries. So, how did they
go from this single beaker of hydrogen
peroxide to this full-scale
manufacturing plant? I visited Solen HQ
in Houston, Texas to find out.
What do you guys do here? What is solen?
&gt;&gt; We use biology to create chemicals that
allow us to create smaller chemical
plants and have a cleaner, safer, more
environmentally friendly footprint.
We've invented a process called chematic
processing where we take the specificity
of biology by taking an enzyme and
pairing it with a metal catalyst uh
which is what's traditionally used in
industry. What we've done with these is
by marrying these two, you can actually
create more efficient reactions. So
instead of having a 60% yield, you can
have 96% yield, which is what we have at
scale precisely because of these two
catalysts.
&gt;&gt; Syogen is the first company to fuse
biology and chemistry in this way.
Pulling enzymes from living cells, in
this case corn syrup, and pairing them
with novel metal catalysts. The output
is chemicals that can be used in
everything from agriculture to skinare.
Traditionally, chemical plants relied on
fossil fuel feed stock, which has led to
all kinds of unintended consequences.
This new approach is cleaner, safer, and
more efficient. We receive rail cars of
corn syrup, and then we run our utility
system. We change the parameters of the
plant, the way that the enzymes are
reacting, the way that the metal
catalysts are reacting to oxidize the
corn syrup how we want. And then at the
end, we evaporate water. We take the
final products, we store them in
finished good tanks or we send them to a
blend farm to get blended with other
chemicals and that's the process.
&gt;&gt; Sogen started with a true Eureka moment,
the kind of freak invention that
normally happens only in science
fiction. Shawn was working in the
chemicals industry and Gorb was in
medical school studying pancreatic
cancer.
&gt;&gt; I was working on this like skunk works
project to try to do direct hydrogen
peroxide synthesis where you react
hydrogen and oxygen gas directly
together over a metal catalyst. And like
you know I was working on this project
and then Gorb was like oh yeah no like I
found this like really crazy mechanism
in pancreatic cancer where it's like
locally 50% hydrogen peroxide
concentration. I was like what that's
wild.
&gt;&gt; It turned out that an obscure enzyme
found in pancreatic cancer cells that
Gorb was studying was the key to a new
process for making industrial hydrogen
peroxide.
&gt;&gt; So these pancreatic cancer cells they
put out peroxide. Peroxide creates
almost like an invisibility cloak around
the pancreatic cancer that makes it
difficult for immune cells to come in.
It was like that's a very interesting
discovery, but why? And so once we asked
the question why, we found out the
reason was an enzyme. It was just a
mutated enzyme that's found only in
pancreatic cancer. And so that's when we
said, what if the two worlds could
collide, right? What if enzymes and
metal catalysts could coexist?
&gt;&gt; Here's how it works. Cyoggen feeds corn
syrup to the enzymes, the same ones from
the pancreatic cancer cells, which
transform it into new compounds. They
then use metal catalysts to further
process those into the final chemicals
that can be used to build all kinds of
products we use in our everyday lives.
In most chemical plants, the feed stock
comes from oil and gas, which inevitably
produces toxic byproducts. Solugen
literally starts with sugar. We have to
suspend belief for a second. People
believe that anything to do with biology
and chemicals, it's just a bad mix
because, oh, biology is too sensitive.
It's going to break down blah blah blah
blah blah. But we said let's just
suspend that criticism for a second and
just look at the numbers and we say if
we can make the enzyme last this long on
stream and the product is this
concentration we can make a lot of money
and that's where we started.
&gt;&gt; This insight that organic enzymes could
operate at industrial scale and
efficiency was the company's first key
breakthrough. Today Scen operates both a
biology and metals lab where it produces
its own enzymes and metal catalysts
inhouse. These are actually enzyatic
reactors. So what we do, we grow bugs,
we break the bugs open, we take the
enzymes and we put them in these
reactors and we can stress them out and
figure out what they're capable of doing
at scale. We have outfitted this with
probably some of the best uh analytics
that you can ever have for enz enzymes
which gives us a good insight into how
things will scale.
&gt;&gt; Across from the biology lab is Cogen's
metals lab. We just went to the the
enzyme lab. Yeah. But basically now we
pair that enzyme with the right metal
and so you can basically mix and match
which metal and which enzyme you want to
pair together.
&gt;&gt; Their next big insight was a commercial
one. Previous startups that had tried to
do something like this all started by
raising a huge amount of funding and
building a large scale plant. Sigen took
a different approach. They built their
first reactor for just $10,000 and then
started selling to customers almost
immediately. Gradually they scaled up to
larger and larger plants. So you did
this technoeconomic analysis and you're
like, "Wait a second. This could
actually work."
&gt;&gt; So May 2016, we got unofficial second
place in the MIT 100K competition.
&gt;&gt; We lost.
&gt;&gt; We got We lost uh gloriously, but we got
10,000 bucks.
&gt;&gt; $10,000. That doesn't seem like very
much money.
&gt;&gt; I think capital constraint forces very
creative thinking cuz like with 10
grand, like you have a very confined
space of what you can afford to buy to
try to make the product. And so ours
ended up being PVC like a Walmart shelf.
You know, we couldn't even afford the
metal catalyst parts. It was just the
enzyme portion.
&gt;&gt; This was the very first solen reactor.
&gt;&gt; Yep. This is the first one complete with
schedule 80 PVC from Home Depot. This is
like a bubble column with a membrane. So
you sparge air in to the bottom. Inside
there's the liquid with the corn syrup
and the enzyme and it's kind of spinning
in a loop. Then they're reacting which
makes the peroxide and then this is a
membrane and so the membrane keeps the
enzyme in the bubble column and then the
permeate on the membrane is the peroxide
product. Armed with just their $10,000
reactor but no customers, Shawn and Gorb
applied and were accepted into YC. But
they deferred a few months and set out
to first try and sell the tiny volumes
of peroxide they could make.
&gt;&gt; We made our first product in like
September 2016. We couldn't afford any
controls, right? This is a total manual
operation. We'd come in in the morning.
We would try to get this reactor to a
steady state. And then I'd go to work.
He was He'd go to the hospital. He was
in his last year of med school.
&gt;&gt; I was on surgery rotation.
&gt;&gt; On surgery rotation.
&gt;&gt; Wow.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. 36-hour shifts.
&gt;&gt; Good times. And then in the evenings, go
in and try to retune it to a steady
state. And then our first three
customers were float spa hot tub owners
in Dallas. We discovered the supply
chain dislocations because for these hot
tub owners, they were buying 3% peroxide
in the brown bottle on the store that
went through multiple distributors,
multiple downpackers, putting in little
brown bottles, shipping it to the store,
retail markup. It's like, oh, we only
have 10 grand, but like we're actually
manufacturing the chemical and we're
like bypassing like huge distribution
value chains. So on weekends, we would
put pour the chemicals in people's hot
tubs. We looked at a bunch of markets to
be like what can we just like wedge
ourselves into? When we first accepted
Soligen into YC, they had zero revenue,
but they deferred by a batch and spent 6
months getting those first customers. By
the time they started at YC, they were
gaining traction. Typically, when people
think about hard tech companies like you
guys in YC, they're like, "That makes no
sense. What could you possibly
accomplish for like a few hundred,000?"
To most people, it intuitively seems
hilariously mismatched to the like costs
and timelines of something like a new
chemical plant. This fundamentally goes
back to the customer experience, which
is what YC taught us to do, right? It
was really like for me it was like grad
school for customers is how I I look at
YC where it's like the second you have a
PhD in your customer and you're an
expert in their world, then you know
exactly what you can and can't build.
It's that simple. If you know this
customer is not the right fit, that's
okay. Go to the next customer.
&gt;&gt; I remember the picture of the beaker
because in your like demo video, that's
what it was.
&gt;&gt; Do you remember this? The blue beaker
and then we had the color change back
and forth with the metal catalyst. But
but I remember another thing about your
application, which is even though the
only thing you'd actually made was like
one beaker full of this stuff, you had
the idea completely worked out. Like you
totally understood the reason that this
would work. You'd worked out all the
technoeconomics. Like all the math was
done. The idea was fully flushed out. I
don't think the idea like the core idea
has changed one bit since the blue
beaker phase.
&gt;&gt; Literally the same.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It's just like a million times
larger.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Is this larger?
During YC, you guys are still driving
around with like buckets of peroxide and
selling them to spas. You finish YC, you
raised your $4 million seed round. What
What happens then?
&gt;&gt; So, we moved to where our customers
were, which was Houston, Texas, and we
used the seed capital to build our first
big pilot reactor, not just a PVC pipe
reactor, but a proper 1500gallon type
reactor.
&gt;&gt; And then our first oil and gas field
trial was January 2018. And so we had
billboards targeting this guy so we
could go get our first oil and gas field
truck.
&gt;&gt; Wait, you had billboards targeting one
guy?
&gt;&gt; So what we did, there was one guy um at
at the saltwater disposal company who
controlled all of the chemical spent.
What we figured out was where he
frequents like he actually goes to the
field where he goes and where he lives
or at least the neighborhood he lives
in. and we bought up the billboard and
billboards are cheap
&gt;&gt; along the highway that he commutes to
work in so that every day as he's
commuting to work he's just seeing your
billboards
&gt;&gt; and then eventually he gets a call from
us. It's a it's like a priming aspect of
it that look we knew this was the guy. I
was willing to spend 10 to 15K just to
make sure that we can get in front of
the guy. And the second that he saw that
and he got a call from us, he was like,
"Oh, I see your billboards everywhere."
And so that's when he felt special,
right? And this goes back to the
customer experience. Do you think the
CEO of DAO would do that? No. No way.
They're not going to do that. Soon, Syen
had signed enough customers that they
were able to raise money again and build
their first state-of-the-art plant, the
Bioforge 1. So, this is Bioforge.
Everything you're looking at here was
built in five locations simultaneously
and then shipped here on trucks. We
rented a crane for 4 months and just
stacked it up like Legos. So, all of the
tan tanks are filled with corn syrup.
That's our raw material. We were able to
hold four rail cars of corn syrup at any
one time, which is about 800,000 pounds.
&gt;&gt; So it's like 800,000 pounds of corn
syrup in these four large tan tanks.
That's the starting material for the
whole plant.
&gt;&gt; That's the starting material for the
whole plant. And then the plant runs
continuously 24/7. So this is the full
scale version of the PVC reactor. Is
this the bubble column?
&gt;&gt; This is the bubble column.
&gt;&gt; It's so tall.
&gt;&gt; 60 ft tall. It's identical to the PVC
reactor from Y Combinator. It's just
10,000 gallons instead of seven gallons.
We sparge air in the bottom, corn syrup
and enzyme go in the top and the two
react together.
&gt;&gt; All the other stuff is necessary, but
like this piece is the magical piece,
right?
&gt;&gt; This is the reactor that makes it
happen. Yep. We feed in one Coke bottle
of enzyme and you get two to four tanker
trucks of product. That's how efficient
the enzyme is.
&gt;&gt; Wow. After filling up the tanks, Syogen
loads up trucks to distribute the
chemicals to nearby customers.
&gt;&gt; So, this is the end of the line. This is
where customers pull up uh either with
their own trucks or Solent supplies
trucks and does all the logistics for
them and we're able to fill up trucks at
about 300 gallons per minute.
&gt;&gt; Building out lots of factories near
customers to keep shipping costs down is
a key part of how Syen has managed to
undercut its larger competitors. What
has it been like to build new like
physical stuff in America? It is
definitely challenging, but if you're in
a part of the country that wants that
manufacturing back that's favorable to
manufacturing, like it is absolutely
possible to to build in America. What
does Syogen look like in 10 more years?
&gt;&gt; It's actually going to be multiple
different assets. So, we're actually
like we've taken enzymes and metal
catalyst and applied them to not just
bioforges, but other types of
manufacturing assets that combine them.
And we'll be solving the most
fascinating customer problems that like
right now like we're not even aware of
them. some of the problems that we're
going to solve, they don't exist yet.
And so it's like just creating a culture
that's willing to like be wrong and
solve those problems is actually what's
most important right now.
