原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqS0w1h9lRs

The technology world is really in the
grips of a two-front geopolitical
technology war. Our models need to be
superior [music] than all the other
models on Earth. We need to have the
world's best AI innovation on a
qualitative basis. So, we need to have
the most market share. [music] If we
have exquisite models that no one uses,
we're kind of irrelevant. The AI
revolution has really heightened the
stakes of this whole technology race.
It's really put on steroids the
capabilities [music] that governments
can have.
Jacob, welcome to the podcast.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having me. It's good to be
here.
&gt;&gt; So, we're going to get into a lot of
exciting conversation about the future
of the economy, AI, manufacturing,
supply chain, but I want to start at
some of your intellectual origin. You
wrote a book, The Wires of War. It came
out in 2021. Why don't you briefly
explain the high level thesis of the
book and then I'm curious if you wrote
an addendum today about how the you know
the last five years have played out you
know what you might have writing.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So first of all it's great to be
here and it's great to see you. I'm
excited for this conversation and then
have the opportunity to lay out some of
the things that the administration's
been working on. In 2021, I came out
with a book called The Wires of War that
was basically uh proposing the a thesis
that at the time was somewhat
controversial but has become common
wisdom since then, which is that the
technology world is really in the grips
of a two-front geopolitical um
technology war. There's the the software
end the hardware end. on the software
side at the time we were seeing the
emergence of things like foreign
information operations and and on the
hardware side which the whole premise of
the book was really to actually say that
the hardware end was the decisive
battlefield. Um there was obviously the
battle against Huawei uh and and really
the infrastructure of the internet and
the basic reason why the book uh argued
that the hardware end was the most
important one is because if if a country
controls the internet at the hardware
level they can compromise and control
everything that runs on top of it. In
our system, we have private companies
that live very independently from the
the US government and that operate in a
private capacity as we know and uh and
that system is not is not the case in
other places including in China where
the companies are obviously much more
subordinate to the centralized
government. And so, and so ultimately
when you have a foreign government that
can whip up its companies as instruments
of political power, that's very
concerning uh for what it means for
national sovereignty.
&gt;&gt; And it's it's funny funny because you
were you started your career on the
software side at Google, right? And then
you realized that hardware was sort of
the more and now now you're you know
spending more time there in your new
role. um why don't you flush out exactly
what were the the sort of key risks you
you identified on on the hardware side
and how have they played out? How how
have they stay uh changed or stayed the
same or Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I mean, really what we're
talking about is if you have a foreign
government that controls uh that can
instrumentalize its tech companies that
operate the hardware of the internet, it
fundamentally challenges our traditional
con conception of sovereignty because it
raises the question of what does it mean
to be sovereign when you have a foreign
power that knows all the deepest darkest
secrets of all the judges, journalists,
and uh jurists in your country and
politicians in your country and the the
the definition of sovereignty starts to
look very very different in a world like
that. And so the [clears throat] first
Trump administration carried out and
prosecuted a very comprehensive campaign
um for that basically argued that Huawei
and ZT are national security threats.
That campaign has been sustained across
administrations since then, including
this one. And so today, [clears throat]
obviously, you know, to your earlier
question, we live in a world that's the
the same in some ways, but that has
evolved and and mutated in really
interesting ways with the AI revolution
that actually uh was arguably prompted
by the release of Chad GBT a year after
my book.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. and and the AI revolution has
really heightened the stakes of of this
whole um of this whole technology race
in in pretty fundamental ways because
it's really put on steroids the
capabilities that governments can have
uh to actually carry out these types of
operations.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And so um let's now get to your
work in the administration. Why don't
you talk about your main priorities and
and goals and you know achievements to
date?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So our um cognizant and
recognizing the fact that the AI
revolution is going to have is going to
totally transform economic power and uh
military power and I'd love to talk a
little bit more about that. Um the
administration has laid out a policy to
win the AI race. The president
proclaimed a very very historic speech
uh last July at a summit that David Sax
and I co-hosted called winning the AI
race where he rolled out the AI action
plan. And in that speech, he basically
laid out that America that he
acknowledged that America was in a race.
And he proclaimed that America was going
to win that race. And it was very
aspirational. And uh David likes to
reference that it was almost reminiscent
of JFK's speech to the moon, which I
actually happen to totally agree with
him on that. I think it very much echoed
that. Um and so and so then that raises
the question for agencies like ours. How
do we actually help him achieve that
goal? From our vantage point, we see
three conditions that need to be met to
win the AI race. We need to have the
world's best um technology and AI
innovation on a qualitative basis. So,
our models need to be superior than all
the other models on Earth. That's number
one. Number two, we need to have the
most market share because if we have
exquisite models that no one uses, as we
know from the world of consumer
technology, we're kind of irrelevant.
So, we need to have the most users. We
want to have the app store that has the
most apps. We want to be the the
platform for the rest of the world. And
number three, we need secure supply
chains because if we have technologies
that are firing on all cylinders,
technology companies that are firing on
all cylinders, but if one tiny cog gets
loose and trips up the whole machine, we
are in a very brittle, precarious
position. And so we need to make sure
that our companies who rely on many
different types of inputs and components
that come from very different corners of
the globe actually have supply chains
that are reliable, that are cost
effective and um that uh and that are
secure. And so we're we're working very
hard to do that. We launched an
initiative called PAX Silica that aims
at securing the supply chain and
partnering with some of the world's most
technologically advanced economies to
develop partnerships uh to uh secure
offtake agreements, joint ventures and
the like. And uh and so we're very
excited about having this, you know,
three-front strategy to win the AI race.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Let's go through the three fronts
that you just mentioned.
you you've mentioned a little bit about
what we've achieved um let's talk more
about that but then also what needs to
happen in order for those conditions to
to be met.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So the having the best qual having
the best AI innovation on a qualitative
basis is really an effort first of all
let me just say that we already have the
best AI innovation on a qualitative
basis. So the question is you know how
do we maintain our our lead? One of the
big thorny challenges that is still, you
know, that's new and very apparent to
everyone is the challenge of model
distillation which is fundamentally
um a undermines intellectual property
and it fundamentally under undermines
the unit economics of the industry
because when companies invest hundreds
of billions of dollars in capex
investments and then to develop fancy
model weights but then other companies
can just take them that's a major
problem. So um that is an issue that we
obviously are tracking and uh our
administration as a whole is engaged in
conversations with companies to try to
find solutions to this. Um but but the
government the the the companies and the
AI labs are the ones in the driver's
seat when it comes to developing to
ensuring our lead on a qualitative basis
as they should be with respect to market
share. Um we you know we believe in the
power of uh that our our products are
superior and therefore you know most
more people like them. With that being
said, we also recognize that they're
competing on a playing field that's not
always fair and leveled. And so we are
actively engaged with um with
governments to basically ensure that we
have a preferential um uh preference for
technologies that are secure. And this
is really, you know, an extension of the
the the work that we've done on Huawei.
A lot of our focus has been on hardware
infrastructure, but I think there's a
lot of intellectual work being done for
what does that mean in the AI age? What
does that mean in a world where
[clears throat] you have open model
weights that are fundamentally harder to
contain? So market share is very much a
part of the thinking. Um that is the
premise for the AI expert program. We
want to grow our market share worldwide.
Um David Saxs and Secretary Lutnik have
done a lot of really great work and uh
Katzios has done a lot of really great
work to help launch the AI export
program and the state department's very
involved in helping evangelize that and
actually onboard more users. We launched
the chip concier service that provides
white glove support um for the AI expert
program for a subset of countries which
are the pacilica countries. Um, so we're
certainly trying to contribute in ways
that are constructive and in ways that
help be an accelerant to get more users.
And then for securing our supply chains,
that's where I think the government
probably can play the most important
role because we can catalyze
partnerships, we can catalyze joint
ventures. Our supply chains are very
frail. Uh, what we have realized since
co is obviously China has very
vertically integrated supply chains
because they have a lot of stateowned
companies. Our supply chains are not
vertically integrated at all. They are
totally geographically dispersed.
Thousands of different vendors, many of
them are mom and pop shops and you know
different parts of the globe, full of
information asymmetries. A company in
Santa CL or San Jose has no idea where
some of these parts come from, who makes
them because there's so many different
layers of, you know, vendor
partnerships. And so as a result, you
end up with a system where companies
have very low visibility. There's a lot
of inefficiencies by virtue of the sheer
number of people involved and the lack
of coordination. And so one of the
things that we're looking at doing is
actually using tools that the the
government can be a catalyst for to
actually bring a little bit more
efficiency uh and coordination to how
the supply chains for our large you know
arguably systemically important
companies work. And so um and and those
include offtake agreements, they include
joint ventures. They include
co-investment opportunities. Um and the
last one is market incentives. So um
this sort of gets at you know one of the
concepts around you know creating some
sort of preferential trade zone. We have
you know obviously our administration
has pursued an incentives-based agenda
uh very heavily with respect to the
imposition of tariffs to encourage
investment in the US. But the government
has tools to actually create to
incentivize behavior and create the
environment that will actually lead the
private sector to dep to deploy capital
in ways that are strategic.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And by the way, on that note, what
is the right way of um making sense of
um you know of tariffs of the effect of
since liberation day? Is it that they
were largely a negotiating tool that
that was you know effective in achieving
its goals? Is it that it's also an e
economic policy that had c certain um
goals? What's the right way of making
sense of it while also realizing that
it's still early?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So the the the fundamental um
thesis and view is um um since you know
over the last generation or so we've
lost 66,000 manufacturing plants. Um
we've lost over two million
manufacturing jobs. Our industrial base
has been completely hollowed out. and
not by an act of divine um destin, you
know, manifest destiny, but really by
choices, policy choices that have been
instituted over the last 25 years that
have been terrible. And so the tariffs
are actually a recalibration of based on
the recognition that we need to have an
economic policy that is tethered to our
national security imperatives. um
they're in pure and perfect markets.
When you have a trade deficit,
[clears throat] typically you have
changes in the value of a currency that
allows a trade deficit to go back to an
equilibrium level of zero. But it is not
a natural phenomenon to have consistent
trade deficits for a 25-year period on a
on a quarter-by quarter basis. Uh that
is the result of of markets that are not
functioning in, you know, that are not
functioning correctly. And so the
tariffs actually helped correct those
deficit, those long-term secular trade
deficits. And if I could just add, if I
could digress and just really hammer
this one point, when the president took
office, we had um a trade deficit with
our top 12 trading partners of over a
trillion dollars a year. I mean, it was
astronomical. And so we took, you know,
the same view that that level of trade
deficit on a year-by-year basis is
completely unsustainable. After
liberation day and when the president
instituted tariffs, we've actually seen
a complete change in the in the
trajectory in a lot of these numbers,
our trade deficit with China, which has
long been our largest u trade deficit
country has been plummeting, you know,
in a way that's that's really um uh
historic. our trade deficit overall has
been receding and and and we have
actually seen we've actually seen record
investment in capex investment in the US
which doesn't even show up in trade data
yet because the capex investment hasn't
you know these things are early
indicators it hasn't yet converted into
production capacity because a lot of
these plants are being built as we speak
but it's it's as someone in the tech
industry you understand the difference
between a lagging indicator and an early
indicator and so it's really encouraging
and actually quite exciting to see a lot
of these investments being made and and
so you know the basic thesis is uh we
used to have a a policy worldview that
said you know potato chips computer
chips doesn't matter and you could have
a a national security untethered from
economic policy. We want to we believe
that it's important to bring our
economic policy in line with our
national security and that includes
having um having an economic policy that
does not run trillion dollar trade
deficits on a year-by-year basis
&gt;&gt; and and say more about uh with the
positive benefit of having a much
reduced trade deficit. Is it that on the
employment side that we'll now you know
um you know employ more Americans
because we're building more here? Is it
that we'll also just take care of some
of the industries that are most
important for national security? Um is
is it you know more more benefits?
&gt;&gt; Well, first of all, the Treasury will
have more resources to actually fund a
lot of the things Americans care about.
Um so, you know, it has really it it has
a very big impact on the resources at
our disposal to actually fund um you
know, the government as well as you
know, uh important programs. Second of
all, it has a very big impact on you
know fundamentally um one of the things
that we realized during co is it is
incredibly you can't defend a country
with Facebook ads. You need to be able
to make things and the national security
strategy that we released actually has a
line that's very apt which says the
future will belong to builders and and
that's our belief. What the tariffs do
is they change the economics of
building. they they provide American
builders with a releveled playing field
that makes it economical for them to
compete if they build in America. And so
and fundamentally that's why we've seen
historic capex investments um because of
the tariffs. The ingredients of you know
the Trump industrial revolution are
tariffs, deregulation,
ener and energy abundance um and tax
incentives which include you know capex
investing through the one big beautiful
bill. Those building blocks totally
change the game when it when it comes to
the unit economics of building things in
America. And so and so it's it's
actually in total contrast to what
Europe is doing sadly where you have
super high energy prices, insane
regulation, insanely high taxes and you
see the result which is a continued
sustainment of de-industrialization of
Europe which is very regrettable. And so
we think these things are choices and
you can actually re reverse them and
we're seeing that play out in real time.
Just on the note of Europe, there
there's some people that point to, hey,
there's maybe some countries that are
increasing their their defense spending.
Do you think that's that's for real? Um
do you think that's good for us? Um
[clears throat]
how should we make sense of what's
happening right now? So I think the
political will is real but uh and you
know one of the the things that I'm sure
you and your viewers will appreciate you
know for folks in in the technology
industry is the political will can be
there but that you know translating that
political will into capabilities will
require companies. It will require
builders building
technologies and weapon systems that are
at least comparable or superior to what
is already on the market. And in order
to do that, you need founders who are
exceptional because building companies
are very hard, especially hardware
companies that are very advanced and and
capital intensive. Um, and you need an
environment that actually makes it
somewhat conducive to actually build a
company. And it's really hard for Europe
to put those pieces together because
they, you know, the culture in Europe
has been really not favorable to
encouraging risk-taking which is a
necessary which is the lifeblood of
starting a business. You need to have a
risk-taking culture and and then
[clears throat] they have the unit
economics problem where it's just really
expensive to build stuff in Europe
because your energy bills are really
high. you have to spend a ton of money
on legal fees before you even start. And
so it's, you know, those parts are very
challenging. So it's not that starting
things in Europe will be impossible, but
they have major headwinds. They will
start on day one with significant
disadvantages compared to American
companies where fortunately because we
have a federal system, the states are
the laboratories of democracy. And so if
[snorts] some companies uh many of whom
we know, you know, have a hard time
building things in one state, they can
always move to a different state that
has a favorable uh tax environment and
and regulatory environment. And so we
actually have a system that, you know,
it still m makes it quite easy to build
things. And so we we our policy is we
want a strong Europe. And so we have
really invested a lot of efforts into
having a truthful candid conversations
with our friends in Europe to actually
share our concerns. And you know the
media some elements of the legacy media
has inaccurately portrayed our our
stance as being antagonistic towards
Europe. But it'll be no surprise that
that's a total misrepresentation.
The truth is is that when you actually
care about someone, you can actually be
candid with them.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Clear is kind. And so, you know, it is
because you care. If you have a relative
who's unwell, is the empathetic view to
pretend like they're perfectly fine and
tell them everything's going to be okay
when you know that they have cancer or
is the empathetic view to actually let
them know that there's a problem that
they need to take care of? I think the
latter is clearly uh the more empathetic
position. We care about Europe. We want
them to be strong and so we are you know
trying to draw their attention uh
towards policy issues that we think are
serious headwinds for them.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Similarly, you know, some people
critique and say, hey, it's better to
have these countries dependent on us. Um
whereas similar to your example, if you
really care about someone, you want them
to be sovereign. You want them to be
independent. You want them to be to be
strong. And that doesn't mean that
we're, you know, drifting apart and no
longer going to support each other. It
means that perhaps we can support each
other better because you bring more to
the table.
&gt;&gt; Exactly.
&gt;&gt; Um and and Oh, go for it.
&gt;&gt; I was just going to say and Americans
are positive some thinkers. I mean
unlike and this is fundamentally you
know something that doesn't always uh
that people underappreciate overseas is
it's not like there is a central a
centrally planned maniacal plan in
Washington to get the the rest of the
world dependent on America because we
are positive some thinkers and and what
that means in practice is Americans also
do a lot of joint ventures you know
because we don't see the world as a
finite pie that needs to be subdivided
into smaller slices. We see a world
where the pie expands and where there's
an opportunity and a lot of American
companies are very comfortable doing
co-investments and joint ventures and so
it's a just a very different lens.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. How should we make sense of the
sovereign AI investments that are
happening in the in the Middle East? Is
is that also strategic for us or say
more about that? Yeah. So, fundamentally
um the Middle East has a lot of capital.
They're going to invest it in artificial
intelligence one way or the other. They
are um you know some of the investors in
the region are incredibly sophisticated
and a lot of them have rightly
recognized that um they they want an
economy that is diversified away from
hydrocarbons and AI is fundamentally a
path that allows them to shift from a
paradigm where they export hydrocarbons
to a world where they export
intelligence and tokens.
They are a a a as as as as you know a
fundamental building block of having of
of large of training large computing
capacity is cheap access to cheap
energy. um um a an integral function of
the cost of of compute is the cost of
energy and in the millions you have a
lot of very cheap energy and so that is
a comparative advantage that they have
identified uh accurately and that they
want to capitalize on. So our view is
let's work together to have a mutually
beneficial approach. We want to enable
you know because we have a positive a
positive sum view of the world. We we
believe in a world where we help them
achieve their aspirations that they've
set for themselves in a way that
actually grows the pie and offers our
companies opportunities to collaborate
on something greater. And so we we see
our approach to the Middle East as an
opportunity to allow our companies to
expand their lead because it's it's
actually a market that uh gives our
companies access to a lot of cheap
energy. the UAE, the the Qataris, the
Saudis, you know, the Israelis, all of
them are interested in AI. Um, if they
want to make available large compute
capacity to our companies, we think
that's a great thing. And so, we've been
having a lot of conversations with them.
The UAE and Saudi Arabia, we signed an
AI an AI deal. We signed two large AI
deals with them. Um, I was in the I was
in Israel where we signed a bilateral
joint statement on technology
cooperation which we're very excited
about which included artificial
intelligence. And so, you know, we're
we're very supportive. It's it's an
fascinating region because I think for a
long time the stereotype was that the
Middle East was an unstable place and
East Asia was an engine of growth. And
part of what we've seen over the last 20
or so years is really that region emerge
economically in a way that has caught a
lot of people by surprise. So it's
exciting to see a lot of the
developments.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. And and to that end,
you've talked about how if the 20th
century ran on oil and steel, the 21st
will run on compute and um minerals that
feed it. Um why is uh the right analogy,
you know, compute and and oil? Well,
because um oil and energy were
fundamentally um uh functions of
economic growth and economic activity.
And when you had the industrial
revolution, um the integration of
industrialized energy, industrial scale
energy production really led to a step
change and a secular e acceleration of
economic growth. And part of what you
know we are likely to see with
artificial intelligence and I actually
co-authored a paper at the White House
econom at the White House economic
council um on the great divergence is
you the the super intelligence
revolution I think is likely to lead to
uh a secular acceleration in in economic
growth similar to what we saw during the
first industrial revolution where you
see start to see the growth band of GDP
growth start to shift to the right
basically. So, you know, when we had
societies that were primarily agrarian,
growth was between zero and 1%
yearbyear. If you're between 0 and 1%,
that means you don't have compounding
growth because, you know, you're under
1%. After the industrial revolution, we
had between, you know, 2 and 3% 1 and 3%
roughly on a year-by-year basis. All of
a sudden, that unlocked compounding
growth. That's when you start to see
economic growth grow up exponentially
like a hockey stick. And part of what
we're uh likely to see with um the AI
revolution is actually a shift upwards
in in economic growth where you start to
see growth pick up between three and you
know five or maybe even 6% on a
year-by-year basis which is really a
dramatic acceleration of growth.
Evidence that what evidence do we have
to point to that? while we've already
had growth break 5% u in the US and
that's huge because the US is the
world's largest economy. So when we're
growing at 5% that's like adding a GDP
the size of Saudi Arabia to our economy.
I mean it's massive
&gt;&gt; and it's a massive movement and creation
of wealth
&gt;&gt; and um and so that's number one. Number
two, the other big indicator is we're
seeing productivity break 5% growth in
productivity. So if you believe that
productivity is, you know, obviously
going to accelerate growth expansion,
you're seeing that data. The other early
indicators that we're seeing is we're
seeing record demand. Demand pick up for
everything from energy, minerals, uh,
components, you know, compute capacity.
All of that demand is massively going
up. and and and so we're actually seeing
an economy that's almost supply
constrained where demand is just so
intense it's outpacing you know the rate
of supply and and so to me that shows an
economy that's actually really running
on all cylinders. Uh and so it's quite
exciting to see you know this um e
economic acceleration
&gt;&gt; and it's funny because it really came at
the perfect time where for a while the
total factor productivity statistics you
know weren't super strong you know we're
reducing whereas the debt was also um
you know increasing um you know local to
San Francisco you know people were were
moving during co and people were saying
oh you know is San Francisco you know
what's happening there and and then of
course AI boom happens SF but
&gt;&gt; who said that [laughter]
Yeah, exactly. Some [clears throat] good
friends and but also uh you know just
for the US in general it seems like this
is our godsend uh in terms of you know
because people were saying you know
during Doge etc like you know we really
got to take care of the debt um and
there just seems to be you know you can
limit it to some extent but there just
seems to be this spending monsters and
maybe it's just easier to grow our way
out of it. Yeah, I mean it is true how
and it's such a quintessentially
American story where you know we somehow
figure things out at the 11th hour. Um
co hits. I mean it is true that San
Francisco did not seem like it was a
great
&gt;&gt; I mean we spent some time in Miami for a
little bit.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, [laughter] totally good times.
[snorts and clears throat] And um and so
you know a lot of people were very very
concerned about the explosion in the
deficit and and all the rest. And you
know obviously Ray Dalio spent a lot of
time talking about how we're in a death
you know debt spiral etc. Um and you
know what we've seen is the AI
revolution catches the economy by storm.
San Francisco makes this you know
shocking comeback. [clears throat]
Um and um and you know hopefully it lit
last less um and um and you know
productivity picks up growth starts to
accelerate
&gt;&gt; and and it's it's actually really
amazing because growth solves a lot of
problems. I mean it solves the debt
problem it solves you know a lot of
problems and this is actually something
that the president really understands so
well. I mean, one of the things that is
um one of the things that I really took
away from my time in tech is, you know,
when you really great founders
understand the importance and the power
of prioritizing and isolating signal
from noise. They understand how, you
know, they're able to identify what are
the one or two things that if I don't
get right are decisive. And you know, we
are actually really lucky in a way to
have a president that really has that
kind of thinking and you know, a lot of
those attributes because he really
understands that you know if the economy
grows really fast, a lot of the other
problems go away.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Just completely on their own.
&gt;&gt; And and so it's actually really amazing
how um how you know this has actually
you know come together so quickly in in
a year. Totally. I mean it's been one
year it's really amazing.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I want to you gear towards closing
by going back to this idea of economic
security that you talk about you know um
I believe China you processes like 90%
of of of of mineral stuff we were we
were discussing and I'm curious is there
a way of actually diversifying or what
do you identify as the critical
bottlenecks or risks that we have to
solve?
&gt;&gt; So I'm actually incredibly bullish that
we're going to solve this. Um so the the
big picture is obviously as we mentioned
earlier is we need to secure our supply
chains which requires putting a lot of
pieces of the puzzle together. It's very
complicated. With that being said we
have the world's most talented founders
unlike some places we actually empower
those founders. Um you know we don't
send them hiding to [laughter] Japan.
&gt;&gt; Um and we're very creative and you know
look we are a country from our earliest
days. is we're a country of underdogs.
You know, we uh were our country was
started as an army of racktag, you know,
uh rebels that overtook um that rebelled
against an empire at the time and and
that's just part of our DNA. So, we tend
to perform really well at the 11th hour
and and I'm totally confident that we're
actually going to solve this. The
question is time is how fast can we
actually yeah
&gt;&gt; turn you know reverse 25 years uh
essentially
&gt;&gt; and you know we'll see but I will say
President Trump's only been in power a
year
&gt;&gt; and just look at how different the world
is. I mean,
&gt;&gt; yeah,
&gt;&gt; I think it's fair to say that it's looks
really different. and the the running
expression. I mean, it's it's really one
of the fascinating things about about
doing the the role that I uh that I that
I'm currently doing at the State
Department is I really get a front row
seat into uh having conversations with
foreign leaders and you know getting an
uplose feel for you know our country,
our administration
and the amount of admiration that they
have for President Trump really can't
yeah
&gt;&gt; you know be overstated.
um they know that he's a sample of one
and they really kind of have the same
kind of admiration that you would
actually that you know that people would
typically be accustomed to feeling in
the tech industry when they admire
founders because they kind of know that
he's just
&gt;&gt; such a you know
&gt;&gt; a leader and also just so unique you
know unlike anyone else. I mean, it's
just like when people in the tech
industry talked about Steve Jobs, you
know, he's kind of like this unique
&gt;&gt; person that had a unique set sets of
attributes and um and so that has
actually been really really striking.
But uh but people also want to work with
America. I mean people fundamentally
like our country.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And and I think it's because
subconsciously I think I I really do
think it's because people know that we
are positive some thinkers and so they
inherently knows that that is a less
threatening you know worldview that
working with America does not mean that
it is you know um uh zero sum and and so
I think that's you know really plays to
our advantage.
&gt;&gt; I'll make that my my last question. You
some people predicted that this sort of
era, this administration would be a you
in all forms kind of a retreat from
globalization and a weakening of our
alliances, but that you know PAS silica
you know represents you know great
global partnership and and and
strengthening of alliances. When one you
and one of the things you talked about
is how you different countries bring
their own you know specialization and
and superpower to the table and we're
stronger together. Why don't you just
share some examples of of what that
looks like?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, um, I would characterize, you
know, um, you're right. Some people said
it's the end of globalization, etc. I
would obviously counter that. It's not
the end of globalization, per se.
Globalization was a banner that was
really used to describe a period of time
where we engaged in unilateral trade
concessions that were completely
one-sided with the rest of the world.
And when people say globalization, what
does that mean? means a ma a uh a world
where we were running massive trade
deficits where we basically exported
almost nothing while importing
everything from the rest of the world.
That was globalization. And so what
we're doing is actually re-engineering
um our trade architecture to have a
world where we continue trading but our
trading architecture is on fundamentally
more favorable terms that are fairer and
more reciprocal for you know American
workers than American builders. Um that
doesn't mean that we're against
partnering people. We started Pacilica.
The president started the board of
peace. We actually you know welcome
partnering uh with a lot of other
countries who share our interests and
and our and our world view. Um so you
know the the idea that somehow
revisiting a lot of the globalization
era arrangements is a retreat from the
world I think is obviously completely
false and you know very partisan. uh
we're engaged in almost every place on
earth and we just do it in a way that is
fundamentally more favorable to our
national security interests.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's a great place to wrap.
Jacob, thanks so much for coming on the
podcast.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having me.
