原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1n5xlfRLw3c

The grid is breaking. We're so
bottlenecked today on the lines that run
crisscross across the country. I mean,
it's this very complicated giant organic
machine. New power is not the problem.
Delivery is the problem. The energy
services were growing over time in the
United States. The net electricity
delivered to accomplish those energy
services stayed basically flat. we can
take that momentum and bring it into a
[music] new problem statement which is
power for data centers, power for
industrialization, power for economic
growth and prosperity and and for
sustainable energy.
&gt;&gt; The idea that the [music] grid can grow
and move from the edge is just not
something that we've really been able to
process for the last 50 years in the US.
&gt;&gt; The grid itself is civilization, right?
Electric power is civilization. [music]
You can metamorphosize the entire grid.
Civilization can regrow off of a new
architecture of moving power, right? and
use all of the free energy that's out
there. The sunlight is free. You put up
a panel, you're getting it. It's very
cool. But also, uranium is free. It's in
[music] the ground. It's there. You take
it and we use it before it just goes
away. And it makes this like completely
new way, I think, of thinking about
nuclear power. It's just it's in the
options list. And it it wasn't even
before.
&gt;&gt; Hey everybody, we're here to talk about
energy and and and how your companies
are playing a role in the sector. But
first, let's start with how do you guys
know each other?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I'm Doug Bernau. Uh,
&gt;&gt; Drew Begley now.
&gt;&gt; Uh, and so we know each other. We were
both working for Elon
&gt;&gt; about 10 years ago, but at two different
companies. Uh, and so I was at SpaceX
and Elon was really excited. He wanted
to build Hyperloop. He wanted to put he
wanted to put little cars in a vacuum
tube and go super fast. Um, and Drew was
a VP of R&amp;D at Tesla at the time. And I
called him up and was like, Elon says we
need battery packs. We need Model S
motor. we need to operate these things
in a never-before operated condition and
we're and Drew was like, "Do we really?"
And I was like, "Yeah, we kind of do."
[laughter]
Um, but it was kind of like that. Uh,
and then from there we did a boring
company also. There was an idea to do
like 30 tons of batteries or something
on a trailer to power an entire tunnel
boring machine like one and a half
megawws.
&gt;&gt; So, it was a story of power actually.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, there was a lot of back and forth
on what was possible and could we reuse
this or that. Um and also a big part of
the Hyperloop uh story cuz we published
a big white paper was actually like
assessing all the technologies required
to deliver the the the concept, right?
&gt;&gt; Um including you know for my team it
meant like looking at like slingshot
linear motors that would accelerate the
capsule into the in the vacuum. Uh it
was all kinds of fun you know never
explored physics for our team before. I
don't know if you were had similar
&gt;&gt; I I yeah I wasn't roped in that really
early stuff. It was more like when it
was for real. We're going to do it. And
you had to build it really fast. That's
when I got put into it.
&gt;&gt; Like and just take the voters from
&gt;&gt; just eight months from now have like 20,
you know, people from 23 different
countries or whatever it was come and
fun event.
&gt;&gt; It was pretty wild. But
&gt;&gt; yeah. And the and the and the college
students like they really ran with it
and and it I mean it still happens,
right? Every year they
&gt;&gt; I think they did it three or maybe it
was four times and then they stopped it.
&gt;&gt; Uhhuh.
&gt;&gt; Which is good. It's for the best. It was
exciting. It led to some companies.
There are some startups in like uh I
think it was one really good one in the
based out of the Netherlands
&gt;&gt; and a couple of others also.
&gt;&gt; It's also fun to see which universities
did the best. It totally
&gt;&gt; mostly the Europeans to be honest.
&gt;&gt; Yeah,
&gt;&gt; they crushed it.
&gt;&gt; Well, cut that out there. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; No, but I mean you should know your
competition. The good thing is like MIT
was doing amazing. Delft did really
awesome as well though. And I mean we
should learn as much as we can from
that.
&gt;&gt; Del is Yeah. Incredible engineers going
to Delft.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Speaking of things that haven't
been achieved before, let's use that to
segue into your respective companies,
talk about the the moment, the insight,
the why now that led you to start your
respective companies. Doug, let's start
with you,
&gt;&gt; oh man. Uh, yeah, it's a great it's a
fun story. So, I was at SpaceX for 12
years. I joined in 2007. So, I joined
when they had two failed rockets, no
successful rockets, [snorts] and so I
got to work on the first ones that
worked.
&gt;&gt; And you're like, this this is the
company to be at.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I I just wanted to work on an
important mission and I didn't I I
really just cared can I like polish one
stone of this like great big pyramid
that is like some lifetime achievement
for someone else even right that's what
I wanted so um so yeah I joined I did
that I did the first uh two Falcon 9 did
the ground system for it entirely which
involved all the permitting also so this
is like launching a rocket from a
military base there's a lot of like
regulatory stuff there this
&gt;&gt; your first fora
&gt;&gt; yeah into All right. Wilderness.
&gt;&gt; Totally. Uh, and not to eat up all the
time, you know, I I I worked on like the
first Rocket with Legs called
Grasshopper back in 2011. It was a
fourperson team really designing and
building the whole thing, the whole
thing.
&gt;&gt; And we were reporting directly to Elon,
like just Elon, to us four, and then
building the whole thing. Uh,
&gt;&gt; and it was awesome because we did really
well. We got lucky a lot of times, but
we made a rocket that flew and landed on
legs. And then I did all the weird Elon
side projects and ideas. So, Hyperloop
when he got really serious, I got tapped
into that and into the Boring Company
and then Mars colony design. Um, and in
doing the Mars colony design, I I was
looking at how do you take Starship
there, make fuel from what's on Mars,
make make fuel from the ice that's
there. And if you do that, you need
megawatts of power. And I was trying to
do it with solar and getting totally
stuck. And showing Elon these plans that
were like four miracles in we need on a
single mission. And it was just
ridiculous. And so Elon was like, "You
probably should look at nuclear." And
that's really the jumping off point
where I started to learn and then three
years later I left to to go run I
founded Radiant and left to go run it
and really trying to make mass
producible portable micro reactors. Um
not for space but you know currently
we're focused on a traileriz thing but
also
&gt;&gt; needed in space
&gt;&gt; right. Yeah. So uh I I do eventually
want to do products for space but we got
to have customers we got to have funds
that are actually there.
Uh yeah. Um so a similar story I guess
uh in that for me it goes back to a
similar time. So I joined Tesla in 2006
and the reason why I even went there in
the first place was because I had done
this undergraduate thesis in uh how to
have produce a how to enable New Zealand
to meet their Kyoto commitments. If you
remember the Kyoto protocol
&gt;&gt; um and they're an island nation so it's
almost like a microg study in disguise.
So what are all the resources there? Uh
how can you reduce the the carbon
emissions from all these different
sources? Um and I was focused on
transportation in particular. And I
became convinced that electrification of
transport was not just like a way to
solve a carbon problem but actually just
the best thing to do from an economics
perspective. And that motivated me to
come to to Tesla. And then over the the
the almost two decades that I was there,
you know, I I I be the all the
technologies progressed over those two
decades, right? like the power
electronics became cheaper, the
batteries became cheaper, what you can
apply these problem statements to just
grew in scope, right? We, you know,
proved that electric vehicles could not
just be the best vehicles but also
affordable vehicles. Um that uh
renewables can come with really
affordable storage to help decarbonize
the electricity sector. And and towards
the end of my time at Tesla, I had the
opportunity to work on this project
called the master plan part three
project where we were effectively
studying, okay, now let's do it for the
whole globe. Can we have a sustainable
all all electric or largely all electric
sustainable energy future? Um is it is
it feasible? Are the resources there?
Like is the investment reasonable? And
the answer was like yes, resounding yes
in many ways. And so I I got I got
further commitment that not only was
electrification coming to transport but
to like everything. And so the
electricity grid needs to grow immensely
um you know 3 to 5x depending on how you
how you calculate and how much
intelligence we need to electricity. We
need a lot. A lot for sure. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Everything can't just be like little
intelligent generators and micro grids
that like mesh together whenever however
they're needed.
&gt;&gt; All of the above.
&gt;&gt; Well, we don't have that already.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Right. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Which planet is this?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Like maybe humans are that I'm not
sure. Um
&gt;&gt; we're very energy efficient.
&gt;&gt; So, um so yeah, I I got convinced that
we needed a massive scale up of
electricity generation, you know,
production, distribution, transmission,
and stuff. Um, and I had seen at the
same time that while there's so much
innovation happening on one side of the
wire, there's really been almost no
innovation on the grid side of the wire.
And that's where I got the conviction to
go after power electronics for
accelerating electrification. Really
increasing the scalability and
affordability of of doing everything
that's required to enable electric uh
generation and use. Um, that's how I
founded her. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; [snorts]
&gt;&gt; And what feels structurally different
about um the energ the increase or the
rise of energy demand you know across AI
defense manufacturing whereas previous
eras you had more um flat growth in
demand feels structurally different.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. high level. We benefited from
energy efficiency from the 70s really or
really the 80s until like the 2010s, you
know, and you saw efficiency everywhere
like in industry with variable speed
drives, uh with lighting, with heating
and cooling, uh you know, progressively
more efficient refrigerators and air
conditioners. Um and all of that energy
efficiency more or less negated like the
growth in energy services cuz they
absolutely like the energy services were
growing uh over time in the United
States but like the net electricity
delivered to accomplish those energy
services uh stayed basically flat and
the same thing even happened in data
centers which is is actually really
interesting if you like look at the
efficiency of compute even with all the
AI things that are going on in terms of
like flops per watt like it's really
gone up immense amount from like the
first data centers to today
&gt;&gt; and that has allowed you know more and
more compute capability for the same
percentage of GDP electricity uh
production now it's changing it's
changing now that we can find more
applications I think for AI than ever
before and so we're going to see we are
seeing you know electricity growth out
outpacing well higher than it's ever
been before and that's not just because
the benefits of energy efficiency are
tailing off but it's It's because we're
seeing like broad-based demand for more
electricity compute, transportation,
uh, industrial electrification. Um, it's
an exciting time, I think, because
electricity as a carrier is like
incredibly flexible and as a pathway to
a sustainable energy future, whether
it's for intelligence or for heating. I
I see it as a great thing and want to
accelerate it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think though, you know, on
the flip side of this, the last you
40ish years of efficiency gains we've
gotten, which have been sup super
important, it it's allowed us to kind of
look the other way.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Uh about
the the real bottleneck in uh energy
generation on the grid, which is just
which is delivery. Um and we're so
bottlenecked today on the lines that run
crisscross across the country. I mean,
it's this very complicated giant organic
machine. Um yeah, we we probably don't
have to talk long about that. Everyone's
talked about that plenty. U but the grid
the grid is breaking. Um you know, so
when we think about just, you know, from
an investment perspective, the types of
things that we're interested in, it's
like how do we actually go about kind of
solving that really complicated
transmission and delivery challenge with
technology?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. decades of not a lot of change
means like the brightest and most
talented people are like I got to go do
something else more impactful with my
life and a lot of those folks actually
like for example a lot of the talent in
GE went to Korea right or Japan because
those were the growth markets and so you
got this almost like hollowing out or
China right hollowing out of of the
knowledge base and so yeah we need to
reinvest because we're growing again
it's exciting I mean it's opportunities
for both of us and others to come to to
make it happen
&gt;&gt; yeah why don't you flesh our uh energy
investing thesis a little bit more in
terms of what are the types of
opportunities we we've been involved
with or interested in uh the the why now
you know is it technical breakthrough is
it is it regulatory is it some
combination why don't you flesh out a
little bit more
&gt;&gt; yeah I mean um you know a this sort of
AI moment in time is is uh it's a good
it's a really good forcing function I'm
actually I'm very I'm very grateful for
AI for lots of reasons but it's just
it's bringing to a a head a lot of
things that have sort of been brewing
under the surface for a long time. Um,
and uh, it's kind of forcing us to
remember how to build large scale
infrastructure in the US again and
reminding us that actually energy energy
is really important, electricity is
really important, getting it to the
place where it needs to be is really
important. Um so whether it's data
center compute or you know the broads
broad-based re-industrialization of um
sort of the industrial base of the US
whether it's defense use cases on the
edge or more centrally you know all of
these technologies that we're investing
in at A16Z are kind of demanding access
to power and it's not strictly access to
power on the grid. I think what we're
seeing is the importance of having lots
and lots of different types of power
generation and a lot more resiliency in
the overall system and network. So I
think you know we all take for granted
that when we turn our lights on in the
office you know when you boot up your
computer there's sort of like a
unidirectional line of electrons that go
from some sort of massive central power
generation station to you know your
power outlet. And what we're seeing and
what seems to be necessary with much
more spiky, much more complicated loads
on the grid and off the grid is that
resiliency, decentralization, and
softwaredriven workflows really matter.
And it's going to be impossible to build
out the grid for sort of the max power
capacity that we could need even at the,
you know, most remote edge use case like
on an army base or something like that.
So when we think about our energy
thesis, it's, you know, how do we turn
this network into a much more
softwaredefined, much more resilient,
much more decentralized,
um, you know, much more decentralized
thing. And so, you know, I think both of
your both both of what you're building
sort of feeds into that sort of micro
grid, behind the meter, on-rid,
off-grid, um, hybrid. We just need to be
a lot more flexible and a lot more
adaptable to a variety of changing
conditions. Doug, uh, it seems like the
the tide turned on nuclear a few years
ago in that, you know, more and more
people started to realize the the, you
know, the boring criticality of it. What
is sort of the progress that we've made
as a as an industry? You know, what what
have we achieved and and, you know, what
are the biggest bottlenecks remaining in
terms of, you know, really making
progress as a country?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um,
it's a good question. I think there's a
bunch of fun ways to answer it. I mean,
the the one thing I like to say, it
sounds a little sensationalist, is that
there is no nuclear industry.
But it's really true. Um, you know,
we're kind of, it's almost like we're
getting excited about flight before
Kittyhawk,
&gt;&gt; right? Uh, to a certain degree, there's
a really, uh, coming very soon deadline.
A lot of companies, a lot of little
nuclear startups have actually been
given access to fuel and facilities um,
and, uh, just expedited support from the
subject matter experts required to
regulate to make sure that these are
going to be safe tests. Um and so by
July 4th, um several companies will have
reactors built that go critical that are
fundamentally new designs, completely
new and from scratch. Uh but it hasn't
happened yet. So it just feels like a
little bit of cart before the horse.
&gt;&gt; Are you does that worry you at all? Like
&gt;&gt; uh not too much. Uh, you know, I've been
doing nuclear, well, thinking about it
since 2016, but I founded Radiant in
2019 and then for a year just learned
how to do reactor design and then raised
money in 2020 and just I I never founded
a company before, never intended to
really do that and I kind of slow rolled
into it. I could have tried to go much
faster. Um, but I've stayed totally
committed to just building. And actually
the the funny thing is like in 2020 in I
said in 2026 I will put a full scale
reactor and and get it critical and get
it up to full power. Um, and we're on
schedule to do that which is kind of
wild. Um, and it's not like that was
really the actual plan, but it was just
I was resilient to all the challenges
that were put in the way. We are now the
only reactor permitted to of these new
reactors to go to full power. So a lot
of others are getting to critical u
which doesn't mean you get to high
temperatures or high power and those
things are very challenging on all the
parts in the system uh right and they
require careful consideration of the
thermal gradients and the alloys right
we need high strength uh materials to do
that so that's really exciting but we're
like not quite there yet and uh I think
if we're doing the same discussion next
year it's going to be dramatically
different because we're going to be able
to point at all these different designs
what you could do with them and I think
the products like uh nuclear reactors as
products has never been seen before.
&gt;&gt; All right. They're always usually these
giant mega projects where you dig a huge
hole in the ground and you take 5 to 10
years or up to 15 for the the slower the
bad projects out there. But reactors
that can just come ours, you know, we're
targeting one per week coming off of a
production line um from our Tennessee
facility, which is a 80 acre site we
just signed for in October, not even a
year ago. But I want to tie back into
the grid because I I I was just uh I had
some interesting thoughts and we really
our product is for off the grid.
&gt;&gt; All right. So megawatt reactor on a
trailer and you can we build in our
factory. We drive it or fly it to where
the customer wants it to go and then
turn it on within like 48 hours. We go
it, you know, wheels stop moving and
then we go to power on your site in that
amount of time and then it lasts 5 years
which is like a full oil tanker worth of
diesel equivalent. It's 2 million gallon
diesel equivalent. Uh so it's sort of an
unbelievable thing where you can grow
the grid or put a put a micro grid
anywhere. Uh but it's like a it's a
totally different problem I think from
the grid itself is civilization, right?
Electric power is civilization.
&gt;&gt; If you go and there's sockets and you
pop something into them, you just get
power. That's very well-developed.
That's uh civilization and that's uh
using electricity to do what you could
otherwise only do with human muscle or
animal muscle. Um, and uh, I'm excited
about um, Drew's product and company,
what it can do for the grid, but also
for micro grids, and it'd be fun to hear
your thoughts on how these things mesh
together actually, cuz we had talked
about like where do our products
actually go together.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, maybe uh, and talk talk about your
product. I know you have like a power
building block of a certain size.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. We're we're building our
first product is heron link and it's a
uh it's a 5 megawatt uh birectional uh
solid state transformer that goes from
DC anywhere from 800 to 1500 volts DC to
34,000 volt AC which is effectively that
that AC voltage is is the
subtransmission voltage of data centers
of large you know battery power plants
of of solar facilities really it is the
highest distribution voltage voltage on
the on the grid around us. So, if you
look at the wires on top of a pole, you
know, specifically the ones that are way
up top, you know, the highest voltage
those will ever be is 34,000 volts. So,
we're going after all of the
distribution
um voltages in in the world. Uh Europe
is the same, so is Asia. And our first
product is DC because that that's about
a 500 gawatt market growing quickly uh
of you know data center solars and
battery solar and batteries. But future
products will be AC to AC. Um, and that
allows you you to do, you know, all the
utility use cases and and use cases
inside of, you know, commercial
buildings like this building we're in
right now. They can all benefit from AC
to AC. And what what is what is a solid
transfer? What is it actually doing?
Right? It's it's um
power semiconductors and software. And
instead of converting voltage at line
frequency using large coils of wire
around like magnetic steel in a bucket
of oil, which is how transformers
generally are done, you're doing it at
really high frequency with much much
smaller simpler magnetic materials to
produce called like you know ferites um
using switching devices and and you've
you've charged a smartphone before like
that little object, that little power
brick that you have in your hand, you
know, it's doing conversion from 120 or
240 volts AC to 5 volts uh DC to charge
your phone and it's switching at uh
million times a second. There's like
tiny little GAN gallium nitride device
switching a million times a second uh
voltage across a transformer that's
smaller than a pencil eraser. Um, and
you know, if you remember back to maybe
you had a laptop in the '9s or something
like that, or you did, I don't know. Um,
and the giant power brick that you were
carrying around that was really hot when
you stuck it in your backpack after
charging your your your computer, like
just in a couple decades, you know,
you've seen more than an order of
magnitude power density improvement
there and efficiency improvement. Um,
now you can do like multiple outputs and
the seven different voltages. And you
know we're trying to do the same thing
but not for commercial electronics but
for industrial scale electronics. And
our building block as you said it's a
modular architecture. So that 5 megawatt
heron link it's got 3065 kowatt you know
modules inside the the product itself is
fail operational. If one of those fails
we just keep operating.
&gt;&gt; So oriented at at rugged
&gt;&gt; the whole building could power off of
one of those blocks. Right. You can
switch your distribution to some modern
&gt;&gt; I like control. Yeah. I like to think of
it as though like if if the grid is
civilization itself and everything is
routed in AC and there's some much much
better way
&gt;&gt; you can like you know met metamorphosize
the entire grid like have civilization
can regrow off of a new architecture of
moving power
&gt;&gt; and I of course like to think about the
first power that you put on another
world like if you put a megawatt on the
moon or on Mars.
&gt;&gt; Yes. distributing that will like set the
precedent for how you do like what what
the technology type will be. Will you
plug into a DC thing or will you plug in
the the two the two prongs that we're
used to in the US at least?
&gt;&gt; Well, either way, cuz I'm not going to
take a big stance one way or the other.
It it's like you should be using
software and semiconductors, you know,
which are higher efficiency, you know,
much less mass and size, especially that
matters when you're going to space. Like
you don't want to scale if this thing
can weigh more.
&gt;&gt; I think there's less oil. I think the
big can of oil, the big bucket of oil
thing for the transformer is hard on
Mars. Yeah, it's limiting. So, it's
really
&gt;&gt; of steel and oil.
&gt;&gt; It's just the leap frog thing, right?
Like, let's use software and electronics
rather than like mechanical systems to
accomplish our power distribution.
&gt;&gt; We went like super nerdy on this, which
is perfect. But I uh our reactor like
fundamentally makes DC power because we
actually run a really compact power
generator.
&gt;&gt; Perfect marriage.
&gt;&gt; And and it run Yeah. Exactly. Uh and
&gt;&gt; so the the greatest civilization you you
are pushing civilization that inch
forward.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It's civilization a new right and
and and it can grow from the edges where
our system makes sense
&gt;&gt; for people with a critical need for
power for resilient energy at a military
base or hospital or for disaster relief.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah,
&gt;&gt; the reason you have to use AC actually
as the way to move that power
&gt;&gt; and the that the idea that the grid can
grow and move from the edge is just not
something that we've really been able to
process for the last 50 years in the US.
Like the grid is a you know has been a
very top down project and if you want to
attach back into the grid as all these
data center people are realizing now
it's a huge nightmare. It's a nightmare.
Um, and so how do you like make it
easier to do that kind of organic?
&gt;&gt; Part of that is because the underpinning
of the grid is these mechanical systems
that are not fast responding that don't
have a lot of telemetry.
&gt;&gt; No software.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, if there is software, it's
very slow to respond. And so you don't
it's it is harder in a world like that
to imagine a birectional grid, right?
like it's the central planning from
inside out you know when you're thinking
about protection and like you know uh
can I stay within the the load ratings
of these lines
&gt;&gt; uh when you don't have the
infrastructure to dynamically control it
the way you want like you you you're
stuck so I think we're it's an enabling
alternative
&gt;&gt; I think one of the things that it could
do for people is you you have a DC
battery we go DC to AC right on these
all these to attach some like large
battery system
&gt;&gt; um and then Maybe, you know, you have a
solar grid, but that's on some different
DC voltage, and that also needs to get
converted to AC to then put on a grid to
use it. But you you could have little
cells like these things that we grow at
the edge. It could be like megawatt hour
battery packs, a few megawatts of solar
for during the day, and a reactor for at
night. And all those things actually
merge and work perfectly on a DC grid,
like a DC micro grid. That's
&gt;&gt; that's sort of what it I think what it
what it could do, right? It's
interesting for people to think about
this.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh, I think it could be
demonstrated at uh some military
installation or some other place. And so
it's like a fun thing that Drew and I
have chatted about a little bit, but
there's no We don't know when we'll be
able to do Exactly.
&gt;&gt; soon. Soon. [clears throat] Let's get
critical. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; That's right.
&gt;&gt; Get to power.
&gt;&gt; The other thing to consider is is
compute also is natively DC. So it, you
know, you're in this interest of
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Compute, batteries, solar,
&gt;&gt; all the new technologies.
&gt;&gt; Micronuclear actually all DC.
&gt;&gt; Micronuclear.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; I like it. I think it's I think I've
talked to other folks about like what is
uh what is a modular reactor, right?
Like you hear SMRs and it's like this is
this in my mind is abs is like the
definition of of SMR 1 megawatt versus
like you've heard about this 100
megawatt SMR.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Micronuclear is a term no one's
using I think. Well, I think it's new
right now. Like we just said it
&gt;&gt; and someone else said it and as soon as
two people say it it's that's it. It's
creation. It's done. It's anvil and
hammer.
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; It's it's in stone now.
&gt;&gt; It's like mainframe verse PC but applied
nuclear
&gt;&gt; and the PC1 like the data centers look
like PCs that don't look like main
frames and there's a reason why.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, SMR can represent like a 100
megawatt thing. Building it digging a
big hole in the ground. It's not
necessarily going to run. It has to run
faster than 60 Hz for it to be DC
source, right? I actually I make AC
because every heat engine you spin
something.
&gt;&gt; But we do it at such a high speed that
we then use active rectifiers to convert
to DC as the first step. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, I think what you know, one thing
that's interesting about both of your
approaches, and I'm curious how much of
this comes back to your time at Tesla,
SpaceX, respectively, but you're both
like very focused on manufacturability
um and modularity and modularity of
design. Um yeah, maybe you should talk I
would hear be curious hear both of your
thoughts about that.
&gt;&gt; I find that there there's this sweet
spot between like capital investment and
like manufacturing cost of goods sold.
Um, and you're always trying to find
that with any with any product, right?
And if you just compare stick building a
power plant in the in the field, um,
versus, you know, fully integrating like
a on a highly automated line, that same
function, the total cost will always win
if you can uh uh do it on a on a highly
automated line. And so, you know, we're
building for our first factory, we're
building a 40 gawatt factory. And people
like, wow, that's a lot.
&gt;&gt; Well, what contextualize what is 40
gawatt? Yeah, 40 g a year. So it's about
um it's about 10 to 15% of the exchina
market for our product category. Um and
it's equivalent to half the state of
Texas in peak power if you want to think
about it in that term. It's kind of
useful.
&gt;&gt; That's like 4% of the whole country's
electric power, isn't it?
&gt;&gt; Uh yeah, the yeah something like that
&gt;&gt; between 500 gawatts and and a terowatt
depending on how you think about it. So
yeah, 40 gawatts a year is I mean it's
significant in this the overall US.
&gt;&gt; Um and why 40 gigawatts? One, you know,
looking at it from a market sizing
perspective, but the other is hey like
right around 60cond tac time is where
you maximize that like capital
efficiency of building a factory. And if
you look at our module size and you look
at 60second tac time, it sort of works
out to 40 gawatt uh spot. And you know I
we're going to ramp that factory. I hope
I expect us to exceed the demand for
that factory. But um you get so much
quality and cost benefits uh going for
full as much automation as you can. Not
too much but as much automation as you
can that yeah it's more than just that
but that's those are the first two
things that come to my mind quality and
cost.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um I mean you think at such a huge
scale um I definitely 100% agree with
the less like I think you said stick
building and it's like the opposite of
that is mass production right thinking
about doing it all in a factory and
that's our entire approach is like a
nuclear reactor
&gt;&gt; it was pretty radical for a nuclear
reactor the idea that you would build it
in a factory
&gt;&gt; absolutely yeah so it's really we're
doing nuclear reactors as products for
the first time ever and it's so that you
can just you can say yeah I want nuclear
power and we deliver it it operates And
then when it's done operating, we take
it away and there's no waste or other
tricky consideration you have to make.
It's totally safe on the customer's
site. We actually use a meltdown proof
fuel.
&gt;&gt; Um, and it makes this like completely
new way I think of thinking about
nuclear power. It's just it's in the
options list and and I think it's it
wasn't even before. Not only is it
there, but it can look better than
almost every other form of power. And I
and I don't like to, you know, imagine
that it's the only thing you want to do.
I really like the idea of like solar and
battery and nuclear and like put that
that whole that whole block somewhere.
Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Right. And use all of the free energy
that's out there because the the
sunlight is free. You put up a panel,
you're getting it. It's very cool. But
also uranium is free. It's in the
ground. It's not flying through the air.
It's there. If we we take it and we use
it before it spontaneously under goes
fision, it just goes away, which it's
been doing. So like when the Earth
formed a few bill 4 billion years ago,
we had like 128 times as much uranium
235. So, we better get a lot of it.
Yeah. The same way as like you put up a
panel and catch some sun. Like, take it
out of the ground, use it.
&gt;&gt; Don't let it turn into radon and other
stuff that is actually harmful to
someone's health. It's like it's more
dangerous
&gt;&gt; from health perspective. Leave it in the
ground. And it's a total waste of the
power. Um, and there's a bunch of cool
like ideas like this and a new way of
like really seeing nuclear that I've
written a thing called Adams for
Prosperity that's on our website. I
released it about a year ago, but it has
this and like how how should you think
about radiation and waste and reactors
and what's possible.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I think there's another thing that
you're not stressing enough about um
that infield work content being really
low. Um so, you know, when I was at
Tesla, I was responsible for the mega
pack product development and then mass
manufacturing and and and the business
of selling them. And the the the less
involved the on-site project is just the
faster everything about it will go like
show up.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. The per
&gt;&gt; racks of batteries.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Just like land land the cabinet,
you know. In fact, we even work work
past the pad like we got rid of the
concrete wherever the seismic would
allow. Awesome. And just did soil nails
because again, it's you're disturbing
less dirt. you know, there's less
concern about like uh you know, how much
you need to grade or what are you going
to do with you know, civil and
architectural type scope. Um the the
local community, especially in your
case, if it's like a temporary
installation, they're going to feel less
concerned about it. And the fact that
you can just pick it up and and remove
it if if for whatever reason it needs to
be, which we you can also do with mega
packs, it it eases this trans this
transition into these new technologies.
and and consider that compare that to
like a giant nuclear cooling tower
visible for miles around. Yeah. Such a
different approach. Um and and and in
today's world where like not everybody
is a Yimi. Yes. In my backyard having a
you know rapidly deployable let's say
&gt;&gt; I thought Nimi meant nuclear in my
backyard. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Nimi. You thought Nimi. So we should
rebrand.
&gt;&gt; Rebrand Nimi. Let's bring it back.
Dang it. I got a problem here.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I love it. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Sorry. No, I mean I think I think that's
what you get with that modular approach.
You get logistics simplification, you
get quick install, and you get simpler
permit um uh and access to
&gt;&gt; no skyline. It's really infrastructure
free, just clean power wherever you want
it over a weekend.
&gt;&gt; Well, but so I mean you built you helped
build factories that made rocket ships.
How it seems like building a factory
that builds a nuclear reactor, that's
pretty hard. Um what's that you know
what's the experience then like so
you're just getting
&gt;&gt; everything is a factory uh we we're
building a nuclear director in our first
building that that we had uh and it's
like a 70,000 square foot uh
&gt;&gt; that's very cool
&gt;&gt; that we have right now we have two
buildings we had to get a second one in
November uh because we filled up the
first building because we start doing a
little bit more vertical integration a
little more of the machining inhouse and
all that's happened to us already but
we'll be able to build up to 10 reactors
in those facilities that we have. We
both know Elon operate out of a tent.
So, right, this is like quite a bit
fancier to have real walls.
&gt;&gt; Um, but in Tennessee, we have an 80 acre
site. We have the first building going
up, which is made for just fuel handling
cuz that's the the tricky bit. And so,
we're working the regulatory permit path
right now on that. Uh, we should be able
to put fuel and reactors there. And so,
we'll initially be building everywhere
we can possibly find like a building
with enough power, right? um and then
moving all the parts to Tennessee to
then get the fuel loaded there to then
take it up to the customer site. It's
nice that it's mobile so we can actually
do all of that. But the factory itself
is a bunch of other buildings on that
site and most of it is like normal
assembly work like you've got big
structures that you're welding, bolting
things together, right? Putting wire
harnesses and things on on the unit. Um
but the factory will have to evolve
multiple times also,
&gt;&gt; right? So a factory before Gigafactory,
right, is a different thing. You you
know the process,
&gt;&gt; right? Automate is last.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. After you've tried to delete
the steps and done all the other Yeah.
all the other smart stuff.
&gt;&gt; Exactly.
&gt;&gt; Of course.
&gt;&gt; So, we're So, yeah, we're just building
and learning what is actually the
factory look like.
&gt;&gt; But parts of the production line that
can be automated and should be will then
go in those newer buildings that
&gt;&gt; we're doing the same thing, right? Like
we're building our first prototypes
largely by hand, you know, in our
engineering facilities. Uh we're doing
about 10 of those this year. uh we'll
we'll do another like 30 to 50 prototype
systems this time in our factory
location which we hope to announce uh
next quarter and then and then only from
the learnings of those two builds will
we go and and and and automate uh from
there and that that's the you just got
to get the reps. How should we think
about how micro reactors fit within the
broader energy landscape? Do they
compete with large centralized plants?
Do they complement them? Are they
serving in different categories of
demand? How should we think about it?
Yeah. So, they're they're definitely an
off-grid product. So, they they don't at
all compete with larger reactors really.
Um, if you can build if you have time to
dig a big hole in the ground and put a
reactor in in that way, then you can do
a larger reactor, maybe five or 10 times
as big as the 1 megawatt size that we're
looking at and it's going to win on
economics. It definitely should. U,
we're already using like one of the
fanciest forms of fuel and it's so that
we can set it up anywhere um and have it
not be a risk, right, to people or
facilities nearby. And so we're we don't
compete at all with those things. Uh one
of the ways I like to to talk about this
is um you could run a diesel generator
or you could run a nuclear reactor. And
you're really deciding between those two
things. Um and we don't beat like super
cheap diesel. Like we beat diesel at
like 650 a gallon, that kind of a
number. So that's where our initial
customers need to be. Um, but if you go
start looking at what people pay for
diesel and what they pay on the edges,
not on like the center of the bell
curve, the average for like a country or
an area, like you look at the tough uh
regions, they're paying a lot. And so
there's plenty of customers out there.
Um, and when
&gt;&gt; some examples I think would
&gt;&gt; oh like $10 a gallon is the average in
Hong Kong. Uh I think like uh Iceland
and Scandinavia, Northern Europe, those
regions are like 78 $9 per gallon for a
whole country actually. So like it's
very easy to see the market is massive
&gt;&gt; and islands.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Islands. Uh absolutely. Um I
mean Hawaii's Hawaii is pretty high
electricity cost and it's I think 80%
diesel powered actually. It's got like
it's got wind and solar that make up the
the remainder. Um but yeah, you could
have a cleaner form of power, right? No
emissions. The nuclear reactor operates
and then rain it takes it and we handle
the all the complexity. But the amount
of power people need, right? uh need
they need in the gigawatts for the grid
and so we don't really do that. We have
the the niche customers on the edge and
uh we don't want to make right thousands
and thousands of reactors. At 50 a year
we'll have something in the range of
like a thousand or two at the most but
we don't consider we don't look at it
and go hey could we make it work for
10,000. There's different products and
we can do it at better economies. Um and
there's a couple of ways to do it. Um
but we're Raiden doesn't want to dig a
hole in the ground and solve that other
miracle. It's too many miracles. I
[clears throat] think it's important to
be able to do it again, but it's not on
us to fix it right away.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Serious miracles. You don't want
to have too many in a startup.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; You need some
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; But
&gt;&gt; well, one miracle that leads to then a
product and and revenue and Right. That
that should that's the way. And then you
can then you have time to think about
another miracle.
&gt;&gt; Totally.
&gt;&gt; So you mentioned that uh we're very
early in the nuclear industry. You know,
we're even pre the nuclear industry in
some sense. So what is the milestone or
or the KPI or what would need to be true
for us to say we as a country you know
the nuclear industry is here and
flourishing.
&gt;&gt; Um I think a couple of things. So we we
could have uh access to nuclear fuel and
enrichment that are like incompletely
competitive free markets where there are
innovative startups fixing and solving
those challenges.
Um, we should have a waste storage
facility that's some centralized
repository which is way safer for the
existing nuclear fleet that's operated
since the 60s. That's an unsolved
problem. And that would those things
alone would cause everything else to
flourish because we already have this
like middle layer of me and a bunch of
other startups trying to get fuel and
operate reactors. And then if we're able
to as a country really have a better
system to deal with nuclear waste u
which actually radian doesn't need like
our uniquely at this really small size
we can just put it into dry cask on
about 10 acres of our 80acre site and
that works for like 60 years worth of
reactors and we can always expand and do
more and uh you know the the nuclear
waste has got high reactivity elements
that last like a hundred years and after
that it's pretty benign but Um, we
already have uh a waste isolation pilot
plant in New Mexico, which is like this
deep bore hole down inside of a salt
structure. So, it's like a salt dome.
Um, this is where defense waste already
goes. And they just said they were going
to build it and they built it. Um, and
meanwhile, we struggle still on the DOE
side to build a repository for
&gt;&gt; for big nuclear plants.
You know, because of that, these
gigawatt scale plants are operating
generating nuclear waste on and they
have to store it at the same site where
they're making power. And in California,
this is like coastal regions that like
are risky where like you can have a
tsunami or something instead of taking
it and putting it in a salt dome
structure in the high desert where
there's no water, no risk of like
certain natural disasters.
&gt;&gt; So, it's just a smarter, safer, better
idea. And we don't do it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Uh and actually, it's a huge cost. It's
a commitment as well. Like you got to
demonstrate that commitment.
&gt;&gt; It's the And it's also the the the nimi
transition that not in my backyard to
&gt;&gt; nuclear in my backyard.
&gt;&gt; Nuclear in my backyard. Yeah. We need
that.
&gt;&gt; Well, you I I mean I think the you
mentioned also the sort of nuclear fuel
supply chain. It's something Drew you
and I have talked about on the um on the
power electronic side, how important the
supply chain is, how focused you are on
it as well. I think you're lucky that
your biggest silicon carbide supplier is
a US company. It's a technology
developed in the US. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Um but you what other parts of your
supply chain and are you worried about?
&gt;&gt; Um yeah
&gt;&gt; thinking about
&gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. Uh so I mentioned uh
there's fite is a a pretty important
ingredient in these high frequency
transformers. Uh it's only it's
basically just iron oxide. So it doesn't
have with maybe a little sprinkling of
maganesees. So it's it's not there's no
rare earth in in the fite, but the
world's largest fite companies are in
Asia, right? It's like every other, you
know, uh, complex supplied good. Now,
there have been ferret manufacturing
facilities in the US before. I'm working
to bring them back. In fact, one of them
is nearby and and uh in Georgia and
could be brought back with some coaxing
and I'm working on it uh with the with
the with the parent company. Um, another
another is is uh thin film caps uh
capacitors. There's a decent amount of
they call power electronics but they
should really call it like power
capacitors because the things you mostly
see are the capacitors and the same sort
of thing you know supply based largely
in Asia. Uh working with those same
vendors to uh bring it closer. No rare
earth materials there you know mostly
polymers and and and you know thin uh
copper or thin aluminum conductors. Uh
we already have a pretty well
established like copper and aluminum
supply chain. You're just saying like
like a small wire gauge.
&gt;&gt; I mean it's like it's like micron thin
&gt;&gt; sheets.
&gt;&gt; Sheets. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Copper
aluminum foil. They're really foils.
&gt;&gt; Um and then that's that's what's in a a
thin film uh got it.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; so yeah, those are I think the critical
aspects of power electronics. Everything
else is already like very abundant uh
and easily disourced in the United
States. Um so you know your your
plastics, your sheet metals, your
aluminum castings, um boss bars and
things. So I you know because of that we
can really focus on those three key
commodities and we we do have plans for
each um to both nearshore and onshore if
they're not already. Um, and like I'm
excited about that because I see power
electronics really moving from the like
device scale I was describing of of you
know charging your your laptop uh or
where it's largely been stuck uh more
recently like in EVs and and and solar
and storage to the grid itself. And when
you do that, it, you know, you're like,
"Oh, 40 gawatts, that's the state of
Texas." But it's actually not like that
because you have power conversion all
the way along the way, right? You have
it, you have some power conversion going
on at the generating facility to go from
some lower voltage to immediate voltage
like 34,000 volts, and then you have
another power conversion system going
from that intermediate voltage, 34 KV,
let's say, to the main transmission
voltage, hundreds of kilovolts. And then
you have to do it again on the other
side when you get into the community. So
you might have an 80 gawatt peak grid in
Texas, but you actually have like
probably 800 gawatts of power
electronics actually supporting that
grid. Um so uh so I'm excited. I guess
what I'm saying is is is while and this
is a useful piece of context. Last year
about three terowatts and these are big
numbers of power semiconductors went
into electric vehicles and the peak grid
power is less than a terowatt in the US.
So these are really like on the same
scale kind of opportunities.
&gt;&gt; I think this is solvable.
&gt;&gt; It's a solvable one. Yeah. and and uh
and I'm I'm like really motivated by
these how much these supply chains have
scaled up to support electric vehicles
and electric vehicle growth is slowing
down which means we can take that
momentum and bring it into a new problem
statement which is power for data
centers, power for industrialization,
um power for economic growth and
prosperity and and for sustainable
energy. So I'm yeah it's it's an
exciting time I would say.
&gt;&gt; Let's talk a bit about data centers.
There's a lot of sort of controversy
about them. How should we think about
what is what is the impact? are they
causing problems on the grid, etc.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's it's a there's two sides to
this one. Um u but I think in general,
like if you zoom out, data centers are
overall going to be really good for the
grid. And I I'll kind of explain maybe
why they get a bad rap and how that's
going to change. So
just I think yesterday I saw a headline
about uh 2 gawatts of data centers
turning off instantaneously in Virginia
uh over the weekend or last week or
something like that. That is the reason
I see why there's a lot of concern about
about data centers on the grid like but
from the grid operator perspective and
and they are designed to date they have
been designed to do that right they want
to keep their compute up they want their
69s so anytime there's anything funky on
the grid they isolate and and run off of
their backup generation or or UPS's and
then ultimately backup generation and
when a data center is 10 megawatts in a
grid that's hundreds of megawatt watts
or gigawatts that doesn't matter. But
when you're building gigawatt data
centers, uh it starts to really matter
and the grid stability is at risk. And
so that is very solvable with software,
modern power electronics, you know,
dynamic grid forming um controls in your
rectifiers and in the data centers. They
can stay online through those cases uh
with a little bit of energy storage and
and and actually stabilize the grid
rather than destabilize it. So that is
like a solvable one but it is it is a
problem that is real like it happened in
Washington state it just happened in
Virginia and needs to be resolved as
these data centers keep becoming bigger
and larger percentages of the grid
&gt;&gt; and I think it's it's a it's a function
both of the data center design up until
now and how they are able to connect to
the grid which today is you know very
dumb systems
&gt;&gt; it needs to be more interactive
absolutely
&gt;&gt; and it can be so much more interactive
uh with with better software and with
more understanding of the capability
&gt;&gt; but then there's this other commentary
about how data centers are going to
increase rates which I I I think if
doesn't make sense to me on big picture
and and and it's it's really simple like
physics of electricity rates right
electricity rates are cost to maintain
the electricity grid or the to deliver
electricity altogether divided by total
kilowatt hours delivered right and the
data center customer is like the ideal
customer they're consuming like near
their maximum power almost all the time
compared to like your house where you
you're like maybe at 10% of the maximum
power of your house like an hour a day,
right? So they are the best customer to
serve in terms of delivering more
kilowatt hours and then and then the way
utilities generally do is they like take
all the kilowatt hours in and they look
at all of their costs and they you know
spread it across everybody. So the more
data center load like more loads we have
like data centers like factories uh that
are steady constant loads the the cost
of serving electricity to everybody will
go down because they are the they are
increasing that numerator the
denominator right like yeah the
utilization is going up right um
&gt;&gt; so the average is getting better for
everybody
&gt;&gt; yeah and and I think you know there's
concern about the power side oh will
there be enough power but I think what
we've seen and actually last here, US
had had one of the highest power
additions to the to the grid ever. And
this year, it's by far going to be the
highest uh capacity addition to the grid
ever. So, new power is not the problem.
Delivery is the problem. And and uh data
centers by increasing the utilization of
the delivery system make delivery more
affordable. So, I I think net net they
will actually drive rates down.
&gt;&gt; Cool. Well, I think that's a good place
to to wrap. Drew, thanks so much for
coming to the podcast. Thank you. Thank
you. Thank you so much. Great.
