原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-awTbzrJLvs

All the things we want to do is really
about the soldier in the mud, cold, wet,
tired, hungry. What makes their lives
easier or better? Your average soldier
today, they're drawing just by
themselves 30 to 60 watts of power
continuously during their operations. So
that's basically a mid-tier laptop
running all the time.
&gt;&gt; We are moving towards an increasingly
electronic battlefield. There's really
this missing uh power layer that is
required to actually field all those
systems. Shar is building uh the
tactical power layer for robotic
warfare. So we had a lot of passive
capabilities that were able to hide kind
of sense without kind of giving away
position but needed the ability to go
active when we needed to to make an
interception. So that meant that we had
to bring the 15 kow generator that was
99% of the time running at 500 watts
creating this detectable signature both
from the thermal and acoustic signature
and then the resupply because it's using
fuel so inefficiently.
&gt;&gt; So there are all these things that
create a signature in environments where
there shouldn't be signatures and that
means that we can be targeted. So,
someone will go plug in a coffee pot and
it'll take down the air defense radar.
We're here today with Adam Warmth and
Alex Miller. Adam is the founder and CEO
of Chariot Defense, which builds next
generation power systems for the
battlefield. Before that, he led
engineering at Anderl and and product at
Archer Aviation. And Alex is the CTO of
the US Army, where he runs all things
technology. Uh he's the driving force
behind the army's push. Thank you. To
get new tech into soldiers hands fast.
Adam, Alex, welcome to the A16Z show.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, thanks for having me. Great to be
here.
&gt;&gt; Maybe just get getting right into it. Um
Adam, for listeners in 60 seconds, what
is Chariot building? Who's the end user?
And what does winning look like for you
guys in the field?
&gt;&gt; It's a great question. Uh Chariot is
building uh the tactical power layer for
robotic warfare. Uh you know the reason
why chariot needs to exist in the world
is we are moving towards an increasingly
electronic battlefield at the same time
that is becoming more distributed more
decentralized uh and we're building kind
of these new systems or we're pushing
these new systems down uh to these
operational mo mobile forces that now
need to sustain equipment uh have
organic capabilities around command and
control around county UAS uh around air
defense EW all of these electronic
systems uh and there's really this
missing uh power
uh that that is required to actually
field all those systems. So when I was
leading county US at Anderoll uh we were
fielding all these new systems into
expeditionary environments and
constantly running into problems with
the existing power solutions being
insufficient for what they're being
asked to do in that new environment. Uh
so what we're doing is basically
building in integrated battery power
electronics microcontroller systems uh
that allow you to hybridize your
systems. So we're not going to replace
diesel fuel, we're not going to replace
power generation. What we can do is be
much more smart and be much more
tactical about how we actually employ
and distribute value on the battlefield.
&gt;&gt; Awesome. And now for al Alex for for
listeners, what is the CTO of the army
actually mean in practice? What do you
control versus influence and what are
you trying to change right now?
&gt;&gt; No, it's a good question. Um, it's an
allin influence operation. So I will
tell you the the real driving force
between all the change really is
Secretary Driscoll, General George is
the chief of staff of the army and then
I have an amazing partner in uh Mr.
Brent Ingraham as the Army acquisition
executive.
&gt;&gt; So right now at this point in time
influence is really easy because I have
willing partners and willing uh
leadership who say we are going to
change things for the better. Um, but
what it means for me in practice, what I
do control is getting out and actually
seeing the problem set with my own eyes,
getting digging in with my hands,
actually being there, seeing it, doing
it, which you don't see a lot of
generally. Um, the p the Pentagon
becomes very insular and people just
sort of hang out there and drive things
from the top. It becomes much easier
when you really understand from the
bottom from soldiers in the mud, cold,
wet, tired, hungry, what makes their
lives easier or better. That is that is
my job to go understand the problem
space rather than just approaching
bright shiny objects or chasing
technology.
&gt;&gt; That's awesome. So maybe let's set the
scene. Um the army is adding drones,
sensors, electronic warfare, edge AI,
autonomous systems. You know, we've
heard about this. It's happening faster
than ever. Um and we're we're here
because there are gaps in our power
infrastructure. So maybe Adam, let's
start with you. Paint us the picture of
a tactical operation center right now.
what's physically there, what's running,
what's consuming power, what are the
gaps?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a great question. So, the the
tactical operations center today looks a
lot different uh than it looked 5 years
ago. Uh as we transition from a very
counterinsurgency focused force
structure to a very, you know, large
scale combat operations, distributed
decentralized. Um and so you're seeing
brigade command post and operational
centers uh that are smaller than a
battalion, uh you know, command post was
before. Um, and so what you're doing is
you're pushing a lot of capabilities
that used to be able to live at these
big fixed site fobs.
&gt;&gt; Right. So those forward operating bases
that were dug in or in construction
&gt;&gt; like semi-permanent.
&gt;&gt; That's right. And so things like
mobility didn't matter. Things like
signature management didn't matter. Um,
even logistics mattered and logistics
was painful, but we kind of lived with
those logistical burdens. And the reason
was we were fighting on kind of this
barbell of the operational spectrum. um
where there was kind of short patrols
happening from you know uh you know
where all that the soldiers really
needed to carry with them was a radio to
communicate back to that brigade command
post that was kind of dug in and fixed
and could provide air defense ISR C2
capabilities as long as they could
communicate with that forward force. Um
what we're seeing is that that every
kind of link in that chain has been
disrupted. So if you think about a
platoon forward deployed needs to go see
over that next mountain to know what's
on the other side of that terrain
feature. They would call back for
support to this big fixed command post.
That command post would launch a drone,
you know, fixed wing drone from a runway
that would get overhead and kind of
provide time on station and stream down
a high, you know, high bandwidth 30 fps
full motion video stream down to that
platoon and they would have that
intelligence picture. Every link in that
chain has been disrupted in a in a large
scale combat operation fight. Uh that
transmission back to base uh is going to
get that uh triangulated and detected
and targeted. the runway that they'd be
launching that from has been destroyed
uh by the enemy's long-range strike
capabilities. If you do manage to get
ISR overhead, right, that's going to be
contested. Um it's going to be shot down
and if it does manage to maintain time
on station, the link that video link
down to it is being jammed.
&gt;&gt; And so what that means is we're pushing
a lot of those capabilities down to the
company, the platoon level. And so
you're kind of your your command post is
now much more distributed. Um you're
running command and control out of a
single truck rather than these big kind
of semi-permanent installations.
So, we're starting to see the shift
already, but let's take that same talk
and add everything that the army wants
to do in the next, let's say, two to
three years. Next generation command and
control, AI, more autonomous systems.
How does that power math change?
&gt;&gt; Um, sure. So, before we actually talk
about the tactical operations center,
let's actually talk about the soldier.
So, all the things we want to do is
really about the soldier. Your average
soldier today might have one or two
radios depending on if they're in a
leadership position. Um, as we think
through things like soldier born mission
command, as we think through uh drone
batteries, as we think through their
EUD, their end user device, so something
like a a tactical Android assault kit,
um, they're drawing just by themselves
30 to 60 watts of power continuously
during their operation. So that's
basically a mid-tier laptop running all
the time. So if you run that over a 72
oper 7 72-hour operation, they might be
drawing between 1.5 and 2 kilowatt hours
just by themselves before you start
adding their team, their squad, their
platoon. So before we start talking
about the fixed positions and the mobile
positions, power looks different at the
soldier level. Now for things like
nextgen command and control um one of
our goals is really making those those
platforms uh much more power uh
efficient but also bringing down the
size of those command posts. So we had
this this wonderful set of
experimentation called transforming in
contact where the very first unit that
went through that the second brigade
101st strike their brigade command post
was five Humvees backed up to each other
&gt;&gt; whereas normally a brigades talk
&gt;&gt; by doctrine is 4,000 square ft. Um, so
if you think through just making it
smaller forces us to have
&gt;&gt; less servers, less computers, less fans,
less TVs because you walk into every
jock and it, you know, it looks like a
Tajbo hall of of TVs and routers and
everything. Just by minimizing the
footprint, we've reduced how much stuff
we have, which means we've reduced our
power draw. So as as we then take that
truth and look at Niction command and
control which is our full stack
deployment of how do you do
infrastructure for communications,
infrastructure for software platforms,
infrastructure for software services
like autonomous warfare like robotic
warfare and then the delivery. So
everything from your apps or your your
TAC tools or the websites that you hit,
&gt;&gt; being able to deliver that as one set of
platform platforms as a full stack
rather than the 17 disparit systems that
came before it means less servers, less
radios, less routers, less cabling, less
comms, antenna, less noise makers. That
is what we're going forward to. It's not
just trying to find better ways to power
everything we had. It's actually
thinking through what should we have and
then how do we power that.
&gt;&gt; So
I mean you've seen some of this in in
the field. Um Adam and Andre, you were
at you were at Andre for three and a
half years building counter drone
systems. Um what did the power problem
for these actually look like in practice
for you? What was failing in your
experience?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, so that that that experience
really shaped you know what what chariot
defense is today. um which was we were
supporting expeditionary county US
operations you know before Ukraine
before it was kind of the the um the the
kind of invogue topic um and is because
we were working with SOCOM who was kind
of running into these problems you know
ahead of the conventional force you know
when when we started building those
systems I assumed cool hey we bring the
robots right uh and and there'll be
somewhere for us to plug in
&gt;&gt; uh and quickly realized that that was
not the case and that your your options
today were kind of small or like lead
acid you know batteries
um not really designed for energy
storage and power distribution or kind
of massive diesel generators. Um and and
we we certainly kind of believe in in in
diesel being part of this solution.
We're very much a hybrid power company.
Um it's very energy dense compared to
batteries, but what not having a kind of
hybrid system forced us to do was size
our power generation to the peak demand
of that sense of that kind of US kit. So
we had a lot of passive capabilities
that were able to hide kind of sense
without kind of giving away position but
needed the ability to go active when we
needed to to make an interception. So
that meant that we had to bring the 15
kW generator that was 99% of the time
running at 500 watts which means it's
using fuel be very efficiently. It's uh
causing reliability challenges. Um it's
taking up a lot of space on that
aircraft that's airing in. it's it's you
know creating a detectable signature um
both from the thermal and acoustic
signature and then the resupply because
it's using fuel so inefficiently. So all
of that creates a targetable signature
that's throwing away a lot of those
those benefits of that passive chemical
gas system. So that's really where we
believe in hybrid. We believe in
batteries as power management power
distribution kind of pairing with the
existing power generation assets in the
army around the vehicles uh and the
power generation that exists. would
love, you know, on this topic of kind of
the generators and the diesel systems
that are in use today. You know, they
produce heat, noise, emissions, they can
be detected and targeted. You know, we
were also just talking earlier about how
how much of a target these fuel convoys
are. Would love to hear kind of your
perspective. How big of a problem is it
for the army?
&gt;&gt; That's a good question. So, there was a
long period of time where uh being an 88
Mike, a truck driver, was was one of the
most dangerous jobs because you're
basically driving you're driving a truck
full of liquid explosive. you're driving
truck through full of of fuel. So, it
didn't matter how efficient the
generators got, they still needed fuel
to run. And all of the signature that
we're thinking about for even in in the
world we're seeing today over, you know,
over the weekend and into today,
signature really matters. So, if you are
creating a thermal signature because
your your generator is running all the
time, you can be found if you
&gt;&gt; and so maybe for the very tech
illiterate of which there are probably
not many listening to these podcasts,
what thermal signature is basically
heat.
&gt;&gt; It's it's heat. So, um, if if your phone
gets hot when you're using it too much,
and that's a thermal signature. You're
you're if you put your the easiest way
if you go put your hand on top of your
refrigerator at home, it's warm because
it's actually generate it's using
energy. It's generating that and it's
it's putting out thermal energy
&gt;&gt; and that means that the en that the
enemy could potentially detect
&gt;&gt; and you can see it. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um, you can see it because it's it's
part of the spectrum. Um, it's why
hunters use thermal cameras. Everything
generates that.
&gt;&gt; Um, same with acoustic. So it makes
noise because you can hear it for a long
distance especially when you're on flat
terrain or nothing else should be making
noise. Batteries if they are not coded
correctly if the converters aren't
shielded they actually produce
electromagnetic noise. So you can find
that as well.
&gt;&gt; So there are all these things that
create a signature in environments where
there shouldn't be signatures and that
means that we can be targeted. That's
one of the areas that we are are really
thankful for new new players that are
emerging in the portfolio that say I
need I know that I have to generate
power. We don't live in a world where we
own everything all the time. Therefore,
it has to actually produce power in a
way that's useful. And useful in this
context is low thermal output, uh low
acoustic output. So, can't be hot, can't
be loud, and and it's got to be easy to
actually move.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. the the the easy to move I think
is also under underrated.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yes.
&gt;&gt; As as a challenge. Um so maybe uh Adam
back to you. What exactly is your first
product? Um how does it work? How's it
different from a traditional battery
system?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And uh and we actually t tend to
lead our products with their concepts of
employment because that's really what
makes our product interesting.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And so what our you know what our first
product is is 424 system. It's a 4
kilowatt system. 4 kowatt hours of
energy storage. Uh but what it does is
it can deploy at kind of the squad up to
battalion level
&gt;&gt; maybe for just contextualize how much is
that like what does that power?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So it depends on the use case and
that's kind of the great thing about
having this universal product is so we
went out to our first transformation and
contact exercise back in May of last
year. Um that was 6 months from first
check into the company. So kudos to the
to the Army Transformation Initiative in
terms of its ability to bring new
companies in to say, "Hey, we're going
to work with this. Um, we're going to
bring it in, right? We're not going to
make you file 6 months worth of
paperwork. We're not going to say, hey,
we already started planning this
exercise 6 months ago. Try again next
year." Um, and so we we we brought it
out there and a lot of it was, hey,
let's discover those use cases on the
ground. We had a multifunctional
reconnaissance company, which is one of
the new elements in the mobile brigade
combat teams, uh, actually aerosol in
with our with that M424 system. They're
able to run 36 hours without generating
any kind of detectable thermal or
acoustic signature running their radios,
their EW equipment, their drones. At a
battalion command post, you're looking
more at like two or three hours. And
this is where we say, "Hey, the battery
is not really the answer from an energy
perspective." In some cases, it can be
for time.
&gt;&gt; But at a battalion command post, what we
saw was guys idling trucks under camo
nets given over carbonoxide poisoning
because they had no way to convert their
AC generator power to DC power. or we
saw, you know, the the um executive
officer having to choose who got to plug
their laptops in so they wouldn't
overload those generation assets. And so
what our system does, it kind of drops
in the middle and kind of access this
converter buffer manager. Exactly. That
lets you handle the big surges um on the
output side without passing those
through to your loads. Lets you shut
your generation off to go into that low
signature kind of hiding mode.
&gt;&gt; Um gives you, you know, failover when
when those when those power generation
assets fail. Keep gives you high quality
power to your C2 equipment. a lot of
that NG NGC2 equipment.
&gt;&gt; What do you mean when you say high
quality power?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, that's a it is a bit of a
nuance like a tech.
&gt;&gt; It's like electrons, you know.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um when you plug into traditional
generators uh and you have a big surge
of of load um a lot of times that can
pass uh that can impact the generator's
ability to generate your kind of clean
sine wave um alternating current power.
Um when you're plugging into maybe host
nation shore power, right? Um there's
brown outs, blackouts, um voltage
spikes, all of that is is kind of
kryptonite to these these these uh
command and control systems.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I'm being somewhat
facitious, but like if you you know, a
lot of
&gt;&gt; it's a real thing.
&gt;&gt; It's a real and and a lot of people who
work in tech and who listen to this
podcast sit where in in you know,
Silicon Valley in the United States
where maybe they have a power outage
every once in a while, but really don't
have to reckon with
&gt;&gt; what it means to what it means to not
have kind of reliable consistent
&gt;&gt; power for their laptops. And it's it's
one of those things where if you you've
traveled overseas and you plug your
phone into a wall after you figured out
which adapter and it doesn't charge
quite right, you can tell that it's
taken too long or it's getting really
hot
&gt;&gt; or if you're me and you blow out your
your your
&gt;&gt; air. Yeah. Um so so like clean power is
something that we used to talk about a
lot more and then we figured out how to
put generators in the middle and
separate ourselves, but those were fuel
driven. So having clean consistent
power, that's that's a really important
topic.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And you brought up the the wrong
voltage, wrong frequency, right? You
know, stuff that's frying your haird
dryer, right? So, a big part of how
we're going to fight and how we're
fighting now is is with allies um that
don't always share the same power
standards.
&gt;&gt; Um so, the other thing our system can do
is act as that softwaredefined power
layer to bring all of these different
sources together and power all these
different outputs. Right now, there's
really no smarts running on kind of
there's no like kind of routing
happening with power. Um so, someone
will go plug in a coffee pot and it'll
take down the air defense radar. Um, and
so what we're doing apply is applying
kind of that smart power layer that's
able to kind of manage um that's able to
optimize that's able to forecast and
simulate um that's able to convert to
the right voltage the right frequency
kind of through hot software handshakes
between systems and so I think yeah
people don't realize kind of how how
much room there is to improve kind of
the the current power situation how much
in counterinsurgency we kind of just got
away with some kind of bad habits around
around this stuff and and how much we're
really going to have to transform
&gt;&gt; uh to to kind of meet this new modern uh
way of fighting But but it's a it's I'm
glad you brought up the coffee maker. So
this is sort of tangent. It's it's also
an education on things that are very
high draw versus things that are very
low draw because a lot of people don't
understand as soon as you plug your
coffee maker in or a microwave, you are
changing the nature of how much power
you're drawing because it it's going to
spike immediately versus a lot of our
drone batteries are much much lower draw
but they're longer. So you need that
energy. It's just not spiking and and
bringing down your talk which definitely
didn't do coffee maker.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, it's like I have in in our
pantry we have a microwave and a toaster
oven. Can't run both of them at the same
time. I learn I remember that the hard
way approximately once a week.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; and then the the layer the software
layer that we're adding is instead of
expecting our you know our you know you
know end user level you know operators
to to really be like you know PhDs in
power. Instead of that if you just add
that software layer that can say like
hey instead of turning on all three air
conditioners at the same time turn one
on wait 3 seconds turn the other on wait
3 seconds turn the other on wait 3
seconds. very simple, zero operational
impact. You've now cut your peak power
demand by a factor of three, which means
you've cut the size and weight of your
system by a factor of three. So, some
very small, you know, improvements with
software can have a major impact on on
mission outcomes.
&gt;&gt; And so, um, Adam, Chariot's core insight
is that the commercial EV and EV tall
industries have largely already solved
this or solved this to some extent. Uh,
can you explain that in more detail?
what made you connect the dots between
the tech on the commercial side and the
military application?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. So, so the time I
spent in my my kind of first career out
and when I come out of college um
outside my time at Androl was in the
electric aircraft industry. Uh electric
opportunity is only possible because of
some incredible breakthroughs happening
in the in the technology sector for
these core kind of electro-industrial
stack components around high voltage
batteries uh silicon carbide power
electronics. It's this like almost
magical new technology that lets you do
all of these things in terms of kind of
software controlled power, really high
compact, high density. And so there's
some incredible breakthroughs there. Uh
same breakthroughs that are behind, you
know, Heron Power, um right, same
breakthroughs that are behind companies
like Impulse Stoves even um is these
really high power density electronics.
And so that was all happening really in
the commercial sector, right? Tesla kind
of leading the way there. Um two of our
leading electric aircraft companies uh
you know are in the Bay Area about 20
miles from Tesla headquarters, right?
you know, Joby and Arch are not in LA
where you might expect them to be. Uh,
and it's because these incredible
breakthroughs happening in the
commercial sector, uh, that actually
allow your hybrid system to win on kind
of size and cost and weight compared to
traditional combustion engine system.
&gt;&gt; Um, and so that improvement's been kind
of happening over the past 30 years um,
in the industrial sector. And what we're
doing is kind of through good forward
deployed engineering um and good, you
know, kind of go to market and building
the product in a way that's informed by
our experience getting into the mud and
dirt with the war fighter,
&gt;&gt; we can kind of take that that amazing
technology advancements and and bring it
into the department
&gt;&gt; in a way that's similar to what Andrew
did with self-driving car technology and
autonomy developed from that industry to
what Palunteer did in terms of their
their working with kind of cloud compute
and big data processing technology
invented commercially brought to
department which has been kind of a flip
from what we saw in the cold war, which
was GPS really invented and kind of
research labs brought into the
commercial sector.
&gt;&gt; We've seen a bit of a flip there and
we're kind of part of that trend
&gt;&gt; coming full circle. And I mean you
mentioned this earlier but you went from
founding the company to having a system
in the field in 6 months. Um how did you
achieve that? how would have and and and
how maybe would that have looked
differently under the old model before
we had people like Alex pushing things
forward?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean I I talked about a little
bit of of just like you know the um the
paper drills, right? And kind of the the
process following and the kind of
inflexibility to say why does this
process exist, right? Um and I think we
kind of lost track of that where the
process kind of became the outcome
versus you know the outcome is winning
like we want to win and then like okay
the process exists and we have things
around like fairness and we have things
around you know uh yeah you know the
kind of right regulations and stuff so
that everyone kind of feels like they
have enough of a shot to keep new
entrance participating
&gt;&gt; but there was kind of then this
overcorrection where the the process
became the outcome and I think what
you've seen with the the guidance from
Secretary Hath and Secretary Driscoll
and General George is is really
refocusing on the outcome. Um, and what
that means if you focus on the outcome
is hey just because this company didn't
exist when we started planning this
exercise literally for that JRTC
exercise we did not exist when that
planning kicked off um and uh and and
it's kind of been a complete
transformation in terms of the
willingness to accept risk
&gt;&gt; um the willingness to kind of bring in
new entrance right and just I think that
really that that outcome focus is really
what I would say is the kind of central
tenant of the transformation initiative.
Yeah, I I agree. And um and this is
really the core tenant of when Secretary
Hegsth and Secretary Duffy and Secretary
Michael um for acquisition and
sustainment research engineering and of
course the the department. That's really
what they're talking about in terms of
it's a cliche overused. It's buying
runs. It's it's not hey our goal is to
feel a team. No, our goal is to actually
win and then you feel the team that's
going to win and you work backwards. So
the transforming in contact when we
first started it was all about how do we
flood the zone for those units give them
all of the technology to solve their
problems and then we will find out what
doesn't work we'll find out what worked
but needs maybe some adjustment rather
than the two years of writing
requirement the five to seven years of
trying to field something and then going
oo I don't think we bought and made the
right thing
&gt;&gt; the right thing after all
&gt;&gt; so maybe that to to that end like what
have been some of the product lessons
that you've learned deploying directly
in the field. I joke like I' I've
jokingly called you the chief for
deployed engineer because when you look
at when you look at Adam's calendar,
it's basically impossible to get him in
person in San Francisco uh for for for
let's say a term sheet signing today. Um
because he spends all of his time
essentially in the mud.
&gt;&gt; She's going to slide something over.
Um, so would love to hear like what are
some of the specific lessons that you've
learned and feedback that you might not
have gotten if you hadn't had the
opportunity to really uh deploy with the
war fighter and get some of that direct
product feedback.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I've had the
opportunity to see Alex out in the field
at at JRTC out in the mud out there at
NTC out in the desert um you know
spending three weeks living out of you
know motel and you know just getting out
of the field with with the soldiers
&gt;&gt; just really enjoying Barstow all that it
has to offer.
&gt;&gt; Yep. Yep. Exactly.
And so uh you know that's that's really
been a great experience is I've spent a
lot of time I think Alex could also
probably be called chief forward deploy
an engineer as well and uh you know just
embracing that model of you know we're
going to get out and we're going to
learn uh we're shipping version 5.2 of
our system um today um as a system that
we're actually selling and delivering uh
to army units right now. Um and so uh
that's you know in in just a year right
that you know going from version one um
you know our first system we actually
ever built uh is still up actually
deployed with a unit up in Alaska
because they wouldn't let us take it
home after the demo. Um but they also
had a lot of really good feedback for us
and said don't take this home. We like
it as it is but if you were to change
something here's what you should change.
And a lot of those changes have been how
do we actually make this as drop in as
possible to the doctrine to the training
right to the to the existing equipment
right focused on that interoperability
that ease of use um
&gt;&gt; is that like hardware interoperability
software interoperab that allows for
interoperability what do you mean when
you say drop
&gt;&gt; it's it's all the above including um
including just kind of the concepts of
operation how they would transport it
how they would load it onto different
platforms you know so one of the key
things that our system has is every
&gt;&gt; tactical ical vehicle and combat vehicle
in the army has this NATO port on it
that today they only use basically to
jump a truck when it battery dies cuz
someone left the radio on overnight. Uh
that is effectively though something
that ties you right into that vehicle's
electrical system.
&gt;&gt; Um and so we realized, oh hey, we can
actually drop something in there. We can
plug into that port. They actually
already have that cable. Um and so with
with something that like we just deliver
this one box, we make it super simple to
use. We have one switch to operate it.
Um, you know, that was kind of the thing
that we we really learned and iterated
on. We dropped it in. Okay, well now
they plug it in and now it's going to
now they end up with a dead truck if
they charge our systems. It's like,
okay, well, let's add that birectional
charging.
&gt;&gt; So, we'll charge our system, but then
when the truck turns off and they're
running loads off the truck, we'll push
power back in.
&gt;&gt; So, things like that were things that we
learned by actually getting out into the
field, you know, doing this at a time in
transformation contact because the
formation structures are changing so
rapidly, right? that there's no textbook
that you can like read on and especially
around power, people really can't
describe their power needs, you know,
their connectors, their voltage, their
frequencies. You kind of have to get out
there in the field,
&gt;&gt; give them something and they say, "Hey,
this doesn't work."
&gt;&gt; Um, and and again, kind of coming back
to we don't actually really like talking
about our products. We like talking
about what does enable um how can they
be more lethal, more survivable, you
know, more operationally independent um
with this capability. And so you can
really only learn that by getting to
deal with them, seeing seeing the
soldier innovation of, hey, what uses do
they come up with it?
&gt;&gt; One of the multi-purpose companies threw
it onto a robotic vehicle and went and
drove around silent, you know, silently
beyond the flot while powering all their
systems. Um, and we're like, okay,
that's that's a use case we should
design for.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And I know you actually just got back
from the Arctic uh with the 11th
Airborne. would be curious to hear some
of the things you've observed whether
specifically related to kind of on the
ground resupply power management power
supply chains
&gt;&gt; everything breaks at -40
&gt;&gt; mhm
&gt;&gt; um JP8 freezes at 53 when you are about
-20 or below by the time you issue the
battery for your radios from the conx
they're dead so one of the one of the
lessons so I had the opportunity to go
up to 11th airborne's JRP JPMRC Alaska
rotation. So, first brigade was the
training unit. Second brigade was the OP
four and they they gave a master class
on how do you make the things that you
have work and then we also were able to
provide them through uh devcom several
experimental types of power generation
management and storage techniques. a lot
of it focused on small batteries and how
do you keep those from cold soaking
which is the condition where um it gets
so cold for so long it actually destroys
part of the chemistry of the battery and
it doesn't charge properly. Um how do
you prevent them and and soldiers come
up with the best solutions?
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; and and like one soldier took a space
blanket and just wrapped the drone on
the battery and it produced enough heat
that it kept it actually kept it
thermally insulated uh enough to fly. So
that's super super simple. It doesn't
need a whole bunch of other things. Um,
DevCom brought some some battery heaters
which just slaps onto the cells, draws
about 10% of the power power from the
battery, but keeps it long enough that
keeps it warm enough that it will fly.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, all of these edge cases were really
really interesting to see soldiers do,
but they're edge cases. So, we saw a lot
of the very similar things at JMRC
in Germany last year where it wasn't
negative 20, it was about 20 degrees and
we saw the same failure. So now we we
can figure out and I'm glad glad you
brought up the flow between the
industrial base now and the department
versus the cold war which it was
department was the idea of factorying
push stuff out. We are at a interesting
time where we're seeing a lot of
technology that solves the 80% solution
and then we can hyperfocus on what's
that 20% edge case because the Arctic is
one and we're seeing the exact same
things that that all of us grew up with
with the super heat uh super hot
environments as well because the jungle
eats batteries just as much. The desert
eats batteries. So now we can actually
go okay the the commercial industry has
solved this really serious 80% problem.
the consumer market is is making things
smaller, more efficient, less expensive.
We can now spend taxpayer dollars on
those edge cases.
&gt;&gt; Focus the resources on the things that
really don't matter in the commercial
sector.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. There you go.
Uh so maybe switching gears a little
bit. Um
I I guess more more broadly like how can
you talk more about how the army is
modernizing its procurement and tech
integration? You've talked you've talked
about it a little bit. Um, but would
love to just, you know, hear hear your
big picture view for for how this should
work.
&gt;&gt; I I Yes, I can. And I'm
proud of where we've been because a year
ago, um, Justin and Leila and I started
we're sitting here talking about what
does acquisition reform
&gt;&gt; look like? What does it mean?
&gt;&gt; And now we're here and I can actually
tell you here's what we've done. And so
the army had 13 program executive
offices across everything and then PMS
under that. We had uh research and
engineering centers that were
disconnected. We had contracting
officials that didn't work for the PMS
or the PEOs. All of that was separate
and they actually lived under different
commands. We had Army Futures Comm Army
Futures Command with the labs. All of
the PMs lived under the the acquisition
and logistics and technology chief in
the Pentagon and then the contracting
lived under army material command. Today
we have six
portfolio acquisition executives and uh
our sort of plus one is the pathway to
innovation pathway to innovative
technologies the pit. Um the contracting
officials work for those portfolio
executives. The labs report to those
portfolio executives. The requirements
generators report to those portfolio
acquis executives. So now you really
have a portfolio manager who says here's
the current state of what soldiers need
in my portfolio. So, command and
control, protection, fire, sustainment,
very big, meaty problems.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Here are the current efforts that we
have underway within the labs that solve
some of these problems. Here's what we
can cut away because commercial industry
is probably going to solve that faster
than us. I'll give you an example. We
did a uh lots of credit to to Chris
Manning who was our deputy assistant
secretary for research and technology
and is now the deputy C2 portfolio
executive.
He actually put together a gauge that
said here are sort of the big big areas
that we invest science and technology
dollars on fires, command and control,
energetics, sustainment and then he also
assessed here are the areas where
industry invests their money and if both
of those are invested in that's probably
a mismatch. That means we are wasting
dollars that you are going to actually
solve way faster than we will.
&gt;&gt; So we can focus on things like
energetics and propulsion and things
that are super unique to us. That is how
we actually thought about nextgen
command and control. Go fully commercial
where you can. That's how we're thinking
about some of our next generation fires
capabilities because there's probably
not a need for 20 years of government
development when we can see very clearly
there's companies who have built
&gt;&gt; better, cheaper, faster missiles or
better less complex rockets. I I get to
watch start SpaceX launches all the
time.
&gt;&gt; So that that is those are examples of
things that we have done like the
acquisition reform is a thing. It is
here. is working within the army.
&gt;&gt; Mhm. So, and you you also mentioned a
little bit earlier this transformation
in contact which is essentially I mean
you should you should describe it
actually.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Um it was a ve it was a very
simple thought um from General George
and then immediately signed on with
Secretary Driscoll. It was what if we
gave commanders flexibility to organize
their units and their equipment for
their mission. So generally the army the
big green machine we have the best
capability in the world for the things
that are unique to us like the things
that came out of the big five uh Patriot
Abrams Bradley Blackhawk Chinook or um
Apache best things in the world bar
none.
&gt;&gt; However that can't be the norm for
everything where commercial industry is
going to go faster. So we said, what if
we saturate these units, give them so
much stuff to the point where it's
probably going to break them. They're
not going to be able to try everything
all the time, and then what if we let
them tell us what's working and what's
not, and then organize themselves with
the formation and the technology to be
the best, most lethal organization they
can be. So we started with second
brigade 101st down at Fort Campbell,
second brigade 25th in in the Pacific in
Hawaii, and then third brigade 10th
Mountain who was going to Europe. We
said, "You cover the globe. You're
probably going to look and feel
different rather than just trying to
field everyone the same thing everywhere
all the time." And then we spent the
next 18 months iterating with them. We
expanded a little bit. So I think I've
seen Adam at every tip rotation.
&gt;&gt; Um, and then we took it to every
combined training center that we have.
So that's the real crucible where we
make units as a unit actually go fight
the fight against a living breathing
thinking OP four instead of just what we
used to do which is hey it worked in a
lab let's spend the next 5 years
building it and then fielding it out and
then hopefully it doesn't combat what we
needed to do we actually made everyone
use their technology. Um, everyone talks
about the things that that work. The
things that came out of tick that were
most important for at least me as an
adviser to the chief and the secretary
is here are the things that don't work.
We should stop doing them. Let's not
waste more money. Or here are the
companies that are really promising.
They're not quite there yet. We can give
them rudder guidance. Or
&gt;&gt; here are the in here are the portfolios
of investment that are the most
fruitful. Let's continue to send them
our demand signal because that's what
they need to do their job.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, how do you know that tick is
working? What does it look like? Um
maybe specific wins or um I I guess like
h how do you move from success in on
within tick to you know a longer more
sustaining larger contract?
&gt;&gt; It's not it's unevenly distributed.
Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um so I will give you one example for
how I know that that tick is working. So
we started with purpose-built a tradable
UAS and now that is something that we
are scaling to the army. We started with
um sort of a vision that
not like Ukraine because we don't fight
like Ukraine but some of the lessons in
technology we definitely want and we
should scale it.
&gt;&gt; So what you're going to see here in the
next couple weeks is the UAS marketplace
go live.
&gt;&gt; It's live right now. We've got it sort
of sequestered off so we can actually
try it, get soldier feedback on it. But
that is a way that now companies can get
their kit out there and then scale those
demand purchases. Um we know that we
used tick to fix the network and really
what that means is rip out a lot of the
super complex networking stuff that we
gave to units
&gt;&gt; and we allowed them to reorganize and
say this is this is how it needs to be
organized for me to get the data that I
need where I need it. And now we're
institutionalizing those training or
those um those architectural changes.
So, I know that it's working in in big
hairy areas.
I think if I were a betting man that
you'll see very similar from us on
things like autonomy, things like power
generation management and storage, um
things like u mission autonomy across
air and ground and maritime.
&gt;&gt; So, that's I know that it's working with
the things that were really baseline.
So, I know that it will work on the
things that are much more complex. And
so then I mean the budgets are still
ultimately controlled uh at the
congressional level. So how do you work
with Congress to make sure that the
long-term budgets line up with your
modernization efforts and what you see
being important in the field
&gt;&gt; aggressively? Um I think
I think last year I talked about concept
called flexible uh flexible funding or
agile funding. Um we worked we worked
with all of the committees and in the 26
budget we were able to get some of our
budget line item consolidation. Um
having those portfolios executive is is
as an arbiter of what their budgets look
like also helps because now you have a
portfolio of things instead of multiple
different efforts. Um and those
portfolio executives can make trades
with
&gt;&gt; they can trade off. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; They can make trades on requirements.
They can make trades on on systems. they
can make opportunity cost trades where
hey maybe we get an 80% solution you
know 30 days from now instead of 100%
solution years from now and then what
you'll see in the army's budget without
giving away numbers because that's how I
get tackled on the streets is is we will
continue to be aggressive about BLI
consolidation and 27 and program element
consolidation but also doing the simple
things that like nobody cares about um
except us here in Washington making sure
that our Jbooks are are not so specific
that we lock ourselves in. Making sure
that our PNR forms are are talk about
the thing the capabilities that we need,
not the stuff that we're buying. Because
then
&gt;&gt; as new companies come online, as new
capabilities become real, that gives us
flexibility to try them immediately
rather than having to waiting having to
wait another palm cycle,
&gt;&gt; which was what we did, you know, two or
three years ago.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. So maybe um zooming out
again a little bit uh you know thinking
thinking towards the future and power
and you know the future of warfare um
I'd love to talk a little bit like one
of the big risks in uh power and energy
in particular batteries is how much of
our battery supply chain comes from
China. Um and China is currently beating
us on battery production production
costs and many of the downstream
industries like EVs, drones, grid
storage. etc. So h how big is the gap?
Is this something that the army is
thinking about? How do we close it and
how do we bring these supply chains
closer to the US?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, just simple question. Definitely
no budget.
&gt;&gt; No, no big deal.
&gt;&gt; No. So, so we are um so one of the under
understood components of the army is our
organic industrial base. Um, it's 23
depots and arsenals and factories across
the United States that that were built
during World War II and have been
running ever since as a strategic
reserve for the for the nation. So, the
army builds all the ammunition. We
repair radars and and combat vehicles
and we build um we have the added
manufacturing center of excellence. So,
that like that is a strategic reserve
that the army has. So, as we think
through battery production, there's been
two big two big pushes. So NDA26 had
investments in battery cells. So that's
massive. Um and then the under secretary
of war for industrial-based policy is
also making big investments coupled with
the department of energy and how do we
onshore manufacturing of battery cells.
super super exciting because you're
looking at you know across the across
just uh IBP industry based policy and
the department of energy you're looking
at almost $300 million of investment and
then you're also looking at um you know
a couple an additional couple hundred
million of investment area that the
department of war is looking at for
battery cell production which turns into
battery manufacturing which turns into
upstream rare earth mineral
manufacturing product productization
metalization and then making it
available so that that companies can
pull it into their supply chains. So
yes, your your army is looking at how do
we do that and we are also trying to
make sure that the department
and industry and the rest of the federal
government understand here's the demand
signal because we will we will
absolutely consume these things. Um it
allows Americans to get upscaled. It it
allows factories to be stood up for
American manufacturing and production
and that it tells the American
industrial base that there are
opportunities that might not have looked
like they were available 5 years ago.
That
&gt;&gt; will actually be hugely beneficial for
the country moving forward. It's not
just a it's not just a drone thing. It's
not just a um you know toy problem
thing. It is really this actually solves
America's problems, not just the
Department of War's problems.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I I'd be curious to get your
perspective as well and and how you're
thinking about your supply chains
particularly on the on the battery end
but you know more broadly across across
the product.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So and we we really kind of see
our position as you know kind of that
that next level down from from the
department where we're delivering an end
product and end solution. Um and so we
can also kind of you know using the
demand signal from the department for
our products can go pass that on to our
suppliers and our supply chain as well.
And we can say hey the you know the
department is is probably the highest
willingness to pay kind of per kilowatt
hour for these systems. Um you know
versus kind of consumer commercial type
applications and doing that reshoring is
going to take uh you know going to take
investment right those first hundred
those first thousand right are going to
be more expensive than the equivalent
from China. But what we can do is we can
say, "Hey, we will kind of help you get
down that cost curve." Um, because we're
able to say, "Hey, we can go and take
that and deploy it into kind of the the
most demanding application, right, that
has the most demanding supply chain
requirements."
&gt;&gt; And we can kind of act as kind of an
offtake agreement uh kind of for um for
those companies. And um you know, I
think a lot about uh you know, we you
know, reading kind of freedoms forge and
thinking about how do we kind of
re-industrialize, right? And how do we
kind of compete in this economic domain
against China? And it's not by by trying
to out China China, right? It's like
what do we do great here, which is
capitalism, right? Incentives. It's it's
it's the government as a customer,
right? Not the government as an
investor. Um, and so we kind of really
see opportunities to take the demand
signal to sell those products into the
department and then say, "Hey, if you're
buying, if you're building cells in the
US, we will buy those cells. We will buy
those first thousand cells to help you
get down that initial cost curve because
we have a customer, right, who who has
that highest demand
&gt;&gt; for that in a way that, you know,
prevents the government from having to
go buy lithium and then figure out,
okay, what do I do with all this
lithium, right? like we sell a product
that that goes directly to that end user
but can help kind of provide
&gt;&gt; that demand signal to those US companies
trying to trying to reshore. The other
thing that we think about really in the
supply chain space is focusing on those
those end items um or those kind of mid
middle of the value chain items where
there's a lot of focus a lot of
discussion right at the national level
the at the white house about critical
minerals right about cells refining
mining but where we actually see some of
the biggest risks in supply chain are
actually these these end items um where
where soldiers are going to Home Depot
and buying uh you know these Chinese
battery banks uh to fill a gap um around
power
&gt;&gt; uh systems that are Wi-Fi connected
right systems that could be backed right
from a communications perspective could
even be shorted out in terms of their
BMS and turned into remotely triggerable
IED. And so we see a lot of kind of the
supply chain and really trying to drive
the supply chain discussion not just
into those inputs but into those end
items and it all kind of has to work
together coh easily.
So maybe last question then. If you
could define success for tactical power
modernization 24 months from now, if
that's the right time frame,
what would soldiers actually feel is
different?
Coming back to the war fighter,
&gt;&gt; um I I'll tell you a story. Um hopefully
it supports the answering question. So I
went to I had an opportunity to go to a
THAAD battery and I will not say where
it is. um even though they are
decisively engaged right now. And they
were rebuilding they these fire soldiers
were rebuilding 3KW generators by hand
because the adapters were fouled. Um the
the guts had had basically worn out. Um
and they needed them to make sure they
had continuity of operations.
And and the question that we asked was
why do you why are you rebuilding this?
Like 3K is nothing. Go let's go find
some. And they went we would love that.
We would love that flexibility to just
go buy a 5K generator and just have it
here. And we weren't doing that for
them. Um so we've solved that problem,
but 24 months from now that problem
shouldn't exist. Now, it's going to take
time to get, you know, everywhere all
for the entire army, but we should be
able to either have some type of of
dismounted solid state battery that's t
tactical micro grid compliant. We should
have some type of of solid state
generator that's tactical micro grid
compliant. Or we should have something
like um the infantry squad vehicle heavy
where it's a vehicle that actually is
able to put out power that is tactical
micro grid compliant that allows
everyone to know here is the the way
that you you build your interfaces just
like we did with software APIs forever.
Here is the way that you serve your
power. Here is the way that you have to
hook up to to so you can give it to us.
And that standard should be no more
cumbersome to any company than us
saying, "Hey, your software has to have
APIs." Um, if we can do that, I think a
lot of the problems that soldiers have
today go away and they get to ask second
order questions like, "How like can we
make this?
&gt;&gt; How what are the other interesting ways
that I can employ this? How can I
actually power my my robotic warfare
company? How can I actually power my my
my tactical UAS platoon and their
batteries so that they're not in a
hindsight with two generators fight, you
know, powering six different types of
UAS batteries. Some of them are super
slow trickle charge because the cells
are smart. Some of them are very fast
charge because the cells are dumb. I
think a lot of those problems become
much more transparent and we can
actually start solving harder problems.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean it I kind of I'll
bring it full circle to kind of the the
outcomes focus, right? And and again,
Chariot not really liking to talk about
our products, but liking to talk about
what we enable. Um and we want to yeah,
we want to kind of blend in as this just
infrastructure layer. Kind of similar
thing with NextG C2, right? Is just like
everything communicates, right?
Everything is shared. There's no silos.
Um you don't need that individual
soldier on the ground to be an expert on
networks or an expert on radios or an
expert on how to configure and dial in
this this particular radio. It's it's
you know, I plug something into the
network and immediately that sensor,
right, all of its data, right, is
available to to the to the people who
need it. um we want to be that kind of
same same layer for for power where it
is it is transparent right it's it's not
something that you have to think about
significantly you can think about how do
I deliver effects right how do I be more
lethal how do I be more survivable how
do I hide what how do I use this to
operate longer without resupply and so
that's really where we're focused is and
and we've we've seen some early you know
wins there um we had a brigade commander
he dropped this into his vehicle uh last
year at the same exercise was driving
these these you know Home Depot Chinese
battery banks back to the 10k K
generator and swapping them out the
whole time. Uh, his exo was constantly
doing math on like, okay, when is this
thing going to be dead? When do we need
to drop it back? We dropped ours in this
time, plugged it into the vehicle, and
and now power was not a thought. And now
now, right, that that that that
bandwidth, right, um, that operational
kind of command and control bandwidth
was focused on mission objectives.
&gt;&gt; Um, not, you know, hey, how do I where
am I going to charge my battery next?
Um, so that's really kind of I think
where if if we if we succeed in 24
months, right? Actually, nobody talks
about power because like because because
it just works, right? It just works.
&gt;&gt; We're on to the next bottleneck.
&gt;&gt; Exactly.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Cool. Well, thank you both so
much. This is really fun.
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
