原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jkKfZMgJZ28

[music]
I'm really really proud and happy to
have Sam Stevenson here, the co-founder
of Granola. Um, how many of you use
Granola today? Raise your hand. All
right, so many of you are familiar with
it. Um, it's an AI powered note-taking
application that's evolving to much
more. And Granola is actually based out
in London. Most people don't know that
that's where the company's built. Um, I
was really lucky to meet Sam in London
when I was living there a few years ago
and have been an early supporter and fan
for several years. Um, and Sam, thank
you for coming and joining us.
&gt;&gt; Thank you, SA. Thank you for for having
me and thank you for pulling this
together and thank you all for coming on
such short notice. I'm like impressed
that anyone showed up given how how the
timing is. So, thank you. I actually
thought for a minute that it was some
sort of elaborate prank because Sam was
running it a little bit behind and I was
like, "Oh man, they really got me with
this one [laughter]
because we had kind of agreed to do this
yesterday." Uh, so thank you all for
coming out. Um, Sam, why don't we start
with high level? What is Granola today
and where is this going? What is
Granola? Yeah. So today, um, Granola is,
uh, it's essentially a way to get great
notes for for meetings, um, for Zoom
meetings, for inerson meetings. Uh, it's
designed to look very familiar. So, it
looks a lot like an Apple Notes or any
notes app you're familiar with. Um, but
in the background, it'll be listening to
the conversation you're having. And
then, uh, the the pattern we have is
basically you you take notes on the
stuff that you care about during the
meeting. We don't ask you to to
outsource everything to AI. Um, but
we'll take whatever you thought was
important from the conversation and
flesh that out into uh hopefully a
really useful set of notes afterwards.
Um, the notes thing though was always
kind of like uh we kind of think of it
like a way to get our foot in the door
into your life to to earn the right to
be a part of your workday. And I think
really the bigger picture is like um uh
we want to be we want to be a tool that
you have open on your screen uh for like
80% of your day, you know, and and it's
helping you get the stuff you need to
get done done. Um and kind of meeting
notes is a way for for the AI to be
present during your meeting and
therefore be understanding what's
happening. Um, and I mean I think right
now we're at an interesting point where
I think the note-taking thing is is
working well and and it's like time for
chapter two where we figure out how to
actually kind of be helpful given the
the context we have of what's happening
in your meetings.
&gt;&gt; And over the time period in which you've
been working on Granola, um, not only
has the product evolved meaningfully,
the broader landscape has evolved pretty
meaningfully. how how we're building,
how we're working together, how we're
working with agents and AI. Um,
high level summary, what is it like
being a designer co-founder in an
environment where you're simultaneously
trying to build upon product market fit,
but also adapt to an entirely new
toolkit that seems to be updating itself
every month. It's
&gt;&gt; it's like equally exhausting, like
anxietyinducing and and also really fun.
I don't know like uh I feel I feel lucky
to get to be I guess a designer at this
point in time. Like it's um uh we're
just so much more powerful than we were
a couple years ago. Um I was I guess
I've been a always like a technicalish
designer. Like I could I could code a
bit and I would be able to do some front
end stuff, but like now I can build
whole features, you know, and like uh
and the quickest way to try most things
is to just try it out in the in a real
product and live with it. And um that's
kind of crazy to I wouldn't have
imagined that was possible like a year
ago or even. So um yeah, it's really
it's a really exciting time.
&gt;&gt; And with the evolution of the product,
there's also been an evolution of the
brand. Now many of us who've been using
Granola for a while, you know, we we
sort of became familiar with this like
toothpaste green version of the letter
G. Um and you guys recently did a
complete overhaul of it. Um, and it had
sort of like a lukewarm response
[laughter]
in the tech community.
&gt;&gt; It's basically puke, right?
&gt;&gt; Keep green.
&gt;&gt; Everybody's got to eat their
&gt;&gt; politically correct thing to say. Yeah.
[laughter]
&gt;&gt; But I I'm really curious to hear like,
you know, one clock back. What kind of
instigated that rebrand? What was sort
of the the thinking behind it? And then
what was that creative process like for
you as the de facto designer co-founder,
designer chief? Yeah. I mean, so the
original Granola brand was um uh always
done like in a hurry when we needed
something else, you know. We never kind
of we're like, "Okay, [clears throat]
we're going to sit down and think about
our brand." It was like um we needed to
hire our first engineer and so that we
looked like a legit company. We needed
some kind of web page, you know, and um
and that meant that we needed to decide
what the web page looked like, which
mean we needed a color and we needed a
tie face and stuff. And so, um, uh, the
original brand was kind of like a few
moments like that where we we just
added, you know, okay, now we're gonna
have this gradient thing, I guess, to to
cuz we need the intense green that we
had at the beginning was a bit too much.
And but there was never like a thought
through um, process for it. And um, and
so that always kind of like irked me
that we never got to really have a shot
at coming up with a good, you know,
fully thought out identity. Um, but
always, you know, as a startup, there's
a million things to do and and having an
okay but not great identity wasn't going
to kill us, you know. Um, but I think
that and also like, you know, it's as a
startup, you're always changing
direction and it's hard to know what
you're going to be when you grow up and
you don't want to like overly kind of
like design an identity that says one
thing and then pivot massively to
another direction. Um, so I think we
kind of uh we we kept punting it down
the road until we felt like no, I think
we we know enough about what we might
want to do over the next couple years to
to to kind of put a stake in the ground
and be like this is who we are. Um, and
so I think we kind of finally arrived at
that moment like uh beginning of the
fall last year. And um, what happened at
that moment? cuz I I'm in my head I'm
picturing you and Chris sitting down and
one of you instigates it sort of pushes
the boulder down the hill.
&gt;&gt; I don't I don't think it was one of us
actually. Like I think um uh Jack, our
product marketing person um I think uh I
credit him with like finally making it
happen. And um I think I mean
I guess I I haven't I' I've like
bothered me that you know that um the
granola looks like fine but not great
for a long time. But also I guess as a
founder I'm in the luxurious position
that whatever I say kind of people will
go along with and so like I can I can
kind of just decide on a whim every
design that we do and it's okay. Um but
I think like you know we had we had um
Jack our first marketer and we had two
other product designers by this point
and I think you know at that point we're
kind of a mini design team and we've all
got to collectively agree on what
granola is going to look like and and
that was just getting tough you know
like everyone no one had anything to go
with so everyone was like uh just making
up different stuff like all the time and
a lot of it was good but there wasn't
really any like unifying idea behind it
and um so I yeah I think finally
enough's enough. We're going to kick off
a process and come up with something
good.
&gt;&gt; And what happened in that process?
Because I feel like as as consumers of
granola, we see the end result. We sort
of see this new conceptual universe that
you've introduced, this new mark that is
contention sol. It sort of feels like,
okay, this is not the granola I
remember. Um,
&gt;&gt; but between now and when you kicked off
this project, there's probably a lot of
stuff on the editing floor. So, what was
what was the conceptual space that you
worked through, navigated through? what
were the questions you were asking
yourselves and how did you first start
to arrive at this particular concept?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think um so I guess there were a
few
a few moves or like a few things
directing us to where we wanted to go.
Um I think
one we were very aware that um I think
Granola had a great brand if you think
of brand in the holistic sense you know
of just like what does a person think of
when they think of granola I think they
think of good things more or less. Um,
and we really didn't want to [ __ ] that
up like that. Uh, it's so precious to
have that. Um, and I think I think the
primary way we could have messed that up
was um, uh, rebranding to something that
felt like we'd lost our soul, you know,
like we'd gone overly like corporate,
now we're now selling to companies and
we're we're a thing that procurement
teams decide that you should use. And um
and so the real risk I think was just
that we we kind of that that we
announced the brand and everyone's like,
"Oh man, okay, this granola's granola's
gone. Like it's I don't feel good about
like like um you know, having it be a
companion to my day anymore." Um and so
we kind of aggressively wanted to push
for
granola like feeling like a tool built
for you, the individual, not for not
something that a company would buy. like
if it kind of puts a procurement person
on edge a little bit and they're like
are you sure this is like a good thing
we should do then that's actually
probably a good thing I think um uh and
so that that that was a big one and then
um I think that the second piece is like
granola is known for not today but I
think ultimately we have this bigger uh
trajectory towards helping you get a lot
of [ __ ] done and um uh this this wasn't
really like dictated from the start but
I think through going through a lot of
ideas and leaving stuff on the cutting
room floor. Like um the the routes that
felt most us um were routes that
actually felt kind of a bit frenetic and
chaotic and um and like like depictions
of real work life like um I think
Granola in Granola there's this
interesting tension where like the
product is designed to be super simple,
right? and to make you feel kind of calm
and and
I like the metaphor of like it's it's
the calm space in front of you while
while work is kind of is like asking a
million things of you and moving very
fast around you. Um and uh and so like
at the beginning we tried a lot of
really calm zen brand directions and um
they all felt just kind of lifeless and
like not just not like a depiction of
your of the real world. Um, and so like
I think where we ended up was actually
way more energetic feeling and way more
um a bit messier and there's quite a lot
of elements and a lot of things you can
use in it. But um I think it's just it
one it'll be way more fun to work with I
think than a lot of the previous
directions we had and two um I think
it's just it feels way closer to real
work life. Yeah. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And do you feel like in some ways it
kind of captures the ethos of the team?
Because I often feel like sometimes
brands are more of an expression of the
culture of the company than than we
realize. And when you sort of presented
it to your teammates, what was the
response internally?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's true. I think I think um that
was probably like this doesn't feel like
a thing. the phrase like this doesn't
feel like a thing that that uh granola
people would would stand behind was
probably like
maybe one of the ones that came up and
that that cut a lot of the ideas
honestly like um I think we're as a as a
team you know we I think we don't like
to take ourselves too seriously. I think
there were there were a bunch of
directions that felt just too high for
not not like something we could kind of
stand behind. Um,
and I think
we we like really uh I think we we feel
this in the way we design the product,
but I think the team really like
believes in this too. We we really try
and um
build for like real life and build for
like um making a product that actually
is useful to you that isn't just a like
a pretty demo or that isn't um trying to
pander to like the the kind of uh hype
cycle of of the the the you know Twitter
and stuff. So um
&gt;&gt; that really resonates because of all the
startups that I work with, I think
Renault is the only one used by my wife.
It's literally the only one and and and
she she's a dieh hard user, but I think
it is because it provides a certain
amount of like stability to the frenetic
like I have to remember all these
details and if they slip through the civ
then that's I'll have to
&gt;&gt; suffer the consequences and so it sort
of provides a safety net. Um, what I
find curious though is this this idea
that like you wanted the brand to
encapsulate not the solution but rather
&gt;&gt; the wildness of the environment, the
swirl around us.
&gt;&gt; Um, say more about that because I'm kind
of I think for me there's like the mark
that sits in your in your app icon,
right? But then there's sort of like
this like
&gt;&gt; this universe that you're trying to
surround the mark with.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; We've all seen V1.
&gt;&gt; What what does V2 start to look like?
How does it start to take different
forms that you guys are exploring right
now?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think I mean um
I think in the in the like wider
universe of it, I think uh
as a company building software, a lot of
like the practicality is like a lot of
your brand shows up in like the um
you're always going to have screenshots
of your product UI or whatever you on
the website. And so and and you don't
change that. You just show the product.
And so like a lot of the brand is like
what happens around the edges of it and
what's the like world you build around
the product UI you have. And and so
there like it would it's it's kind of
like I was saying like uh if granola is
this simple clean UI that's that's you
know designed to make you just kind of
feel calm and in control then then the
stuff around it has got to depict real
life and uh and yeah that that was a lot
of it. Um, I also I kind of mentioned
this earlier, but I I feel like um we
have really good designers on the team
and I kind of
like I feel like through this process I
was half thinking about like does this
solve the job of like what the Granola
brand needs to do and also just like is
this going to be really fun to work with
and are we going to be able to come up
with some really cool stuff with it? And
so the fact that it's a little there are
a lot of elements there and there's
quite a lot to play with and um it's
maybe not as cohesive and like unified
as a lot of brands would be, but I also
think um good designers will really
enjoy working with it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it has this quality of like a
season one of a show where you're like,
I don't know if all these characters are
going to stick around, but you know, we
got enough that it's kind of interesting
and some of them died and so be it.
Nobody's going to remember them anyway.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Um gosh, I have so many questions. So,
we're we're at South Park Commons and I
feel like I I I I have to ask the
question about like the minus one
journey. And I think the day that I met
you was the day that I felt like I saw
the first version of Granola that we
know today. Um, prior to that, I had
been spending time with Chris. Um,
&gt;&gt; he's hiding in the back, by the way.
He's not even backstage, but he's
[laughter]
&gt;&gt; um I was, you know, spending time with
Chris on this like voice dictation tool
that he was building and I was sending
him all kinds of weird voice memos. Um
and and and it was the first time that I
saw a different use case of the same
technology and you were in the room kind
of walking through it and it had almost
like a photocopier effect that kind of
it was sort of the swipe through the the
viewport. It kind of like generated the
the notes.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And uh I like to call these
Jurassic Park moments. I don't know if
you guys remember the scene in Jurassic
Park when they stop the tour of Jurassic
Park to go watch the baby raptors hatch.
And it's like John Hammond says, he's
like, I built this whole damn park just
to be here when they're born. And I feel
like that's like my career in a
nutshell. It's to be there when you see
the first version of something new and
you're like, there it is. That's the
feature. It's squishy and it's ugly and
you have to feed it for a while, but
it's going to grow up to eat things.
It's going to be something big and it's
something new. The world is different.
Um, but a lot of work goes into what
happens to hatch that egg.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, tell us a little bit about your
startup journey.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; How you decided to become a founder and
what led up to that moment when you and
I met.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um,
I mean, uh, I think I've I think I've
always wanted to do
I've always been inclined to just like,
um, work on stuff myself. I'm I'm I'm
like a kind of independent person to a
fault. I guess I don't like
&gt;&gt; You're not enjoying. Yeah. Never good at
team sports. [laughter]
Um, so like uh I guess pre- granola, I
was at a time where I'd been freelancing
for a while for different startups. um
uh freelancing because I didn't I didn't
kind of getting a job felt like a scary
idea and I didn't could never quite
commit to it. Um and uh I've been doing
that for a few years. I'd like saved up
enough that I could afford to just quit
and not do anything for a bit. Um and
I I think if I if I'm like alone in a
room, I'll naturally want to tinker with
things and just try out making stuff. Um
I basically had like six months of doing
that. Like I every morning I would wake
up and I'd be like, "Okay, should
probably like apply to some jobs today."
And I would like, you know, start making
lists of jobs to apply to and things.
And then um and within half an hour be
distracted and like hacking on a on a
thing instead. Um
and I was uh I guess previous to
Granola, I was working on another
and I, you know, I quit that, but I
still, I really enjoyed working on that
kind of product. Like, um, super general
purpose,
uh, tools, like productivity tools. I
think they're, if you do them really
well, then they they're like a really
integral part of someone's life, you
know, like people pour a lot of
themselves into it, and it's a very
satisfying kind of thing to work on, I
think. Um, so I basically quit working
on a note-taking app, but then ended up
trying to build my own noting app in my
own time. Um, and a few months into
that, I met Chris. Um, and and Chris was
uh at a doing a similar thing, I guess,
like he'd also quit was also trying to
do a startup. Chris had more
intentionality, I think, about about how
he was spending his time, like actively
looking to to do a startup. Um, and so
we found each other. Um, Chris, I think,
was was spending his time playing a lot
with GPT3 at the time. um and and I
think had successfully like and
correctly convinced himself that it was
going to change the world. Um honestly I
was not so convinced. I was like
I remember I remember um yeah no I
really I was like it's cool but whatever
you know like
&gt;&gt; everyone everyone complains about slop
today but like the slop was really bad
in GPT3 days.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um and uh so I yeah we
we we had a while of just like
independently Chris was building
prototypes with GPT3. I was continuing
to hack on this note-taking app. Um I
think eventually we kind of we decided
we like working together and we we
wanted to and and also like I think
spending time together our ideas kind of
started looking more and more alike. Um
and there came a point I think a few
months into that where we were like okay
cool that's this is fun like let's let's
try and do something. Um, and uh, we
both I think uh, Chris is like a like a
the best like product thinker I think
I've ever worked with. And um, uh, I
think we both were super keen like we
were like if we're going to work on
something then we really really need to
find like a concrete um, use case to
work on and and and build towards. Like
I think
I I definitely learned from working on
of building general purpose tools is you
can you can build something that's like
nice but also nobody really cares about.
And um and I think the antidote to that
is like really really focusing on a
particular moment in someone's life that
is painful and trying to solve it. Um
and so we're both kind of paranoid about
that. And um and so
because of that like um we kind of
deliberately down tools on the things we
were working on and we're like okay
we're going to just go hunting for a
problem for a little while um and
open-endedly just started talking to
friends and and people we knew about
their work life um and this went on for
like a month or so. And I think uh
during that you know we was we just
started off by just talking to people um
and then you know you you talk to five
people and you can't help but have ideas
about what would help them. And so we
started building prototypes of of things
that would help them. Um, and then by
the end of that month, we I think we had
I think not the version that you were
describing, but like a a really really
janky version of it. Um, where you could
like uh transcribe something someone was
saying and then type a word and have
Granola like autocomplete a sentence off
the back of it. Um, it was just like one
interaction. like it literally it was
like a a text input button and then a
and then a little field to the right and
you would like type a keyword hit the
button and the note would generate on
the right. It was not at all like a
usable product.
&gt;&gt; Um but the one interaction just felt
interesting enough like there could be
something there that um I think we were
kind of intrigued enough to keep pulling
on that thread.
&gt;&gt; And uh I think the thing we showed you
was basically like what if we took that
interaction put it in a familiar feeling
UI like a notepad. um and let you do do
that many times over during the course
of the meeting. Um
&gt;&gt; yeah, and that's kind of how we got to
the first prototype.
&gt;&gt; And I appreciated that it happened after
the meeting. I felt like that was the
key insight that it wasn't sort of
interrupting.
&gt;&gt; Well, no, at the beginning it didn't.
&gt;&gt; At the beginning it didn't. It was um it
was all real time like we uh we were
trying to um uh it was kind of like a
GitHub copilot for for notes. Like it
would um you just type keywords, hit
tab, it would autocomplete the thing.
And um though like doing it after a
meeting took us a while. It was like a
uh I think we got stuck on the the you
should be able to take notes with AI in
real time for a good like six months I
think before we we figured out that
actually no it's too much and just doing
it all in one pass after the meeting is
the way. What do you feel like is the
lesson there for like teams that are in
that particular part of the idea base
where like ah gosh there's something
here but we haven't quite cracked the
form factor.
Like when you look back on that period
of exploration,
obviously knowing the solution is worth
knowing, but like what advice would you
give for teams that are squarely in that
space?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean I don't I don't think we I
don't think we did it optimally like we
we were banging our head against the
wall trying to make like real time AI
months. Um kind of and I think just kind
of enamored with how like science
fiction it felt like the idea of it. Um,
so if I could wind back the clock, I
would go for like way more wide uh, you
know, we were kind of like doing like
little step-by-step iterations on on the
thing. And uh, I would have tried to
deliberately go way more broad to see
how different things felt. Yeah. And um,
I guess there's also this undertold
story of, you know, you're navigating a
specific kind of relationship. This is
your first time co-ounding a startup,
correct?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, so
that changes your self-concept. That's
also a question of like, okay, do I team
up with this person? Like, how permanent
decision is this? Um, what advice do you
have to to designer founders as they're
kind of navigating that specific
arrangement or like, okay, am I going to
start a company with this this person?
Like, what questions should they be
asking? Um, and how I guess afterwards
you can talk a little bit about how that
relationship has evolved as you went
from this idea that's kind of started
working to the business that exists
today.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um,
&gt;&gt; this would have been much easier to ask
if Chris wasn't here. By the way,
[laughter]
&gt;&gt; he's closing the door for the record. In
my defense, in my in my defense, I
thought Chris was going to be on an
airplane flying back to London right
now. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; So, give us a real dirt, man.
We we had like a um uh it's like I think
I think the beginning of our
relationship was embarrassingly like a
real dating relationship, you know, like
as in as in we kind of took it slow and
we were like uh uh hanging out socially
and then co-working next to each other
and then trying out working on ideas
together and then and then uh honestly I
think you saying you were interested in
putting a check-in was the moment where
we were like, "Oh boy, is this is this
are we getting married?" [laughter]
and and we we went for a long serious
walk and Chris was like, "Sam, you know,
this is this is a this is a big deal.
Are you sure you want to do this?" And
[laughter]
&gt;&gt; yeah, I mean, how did you answer that
question for yourself? Like the the the
whole like commitment part?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I didn't like initially. I
was like, "Oh, [ __ ] Yeah, I should go
think about this." Um but uh uh I think
I think for me it was just like like
this was just a combination of like um I
know I've always kind of wanted to get
to work on a thing that I got to build
from the ground up. And um
this is like this a great combination of
like a person I really like working with
um who I think makes me better at what I
do. And uh and it's it's a kind of tool
that it's like the kind of tool that I
was hacking on choosing to hack on every
day like in my own time and and now I'm
going to get to do it like like as my
job as my full-time thing. Um so I mean
I I think the the scary stuff for me was
like um
I've always just been like an an IC
designer. I think always the first like
the only designer on the team. I never
worked and I never worked as a team
bigger than like 10 people before I
think. Um so like the the
honestly I was like very excited about
the first year you know or whatever of
like um let's just figure out version
one of the product but then like the
what happens if it's actually successful
was like oh it's kind of I I basically
solved that by not thinking about it you
know I was like whatever like if we get
there then great we'll um we'll make it
up as we go along from there but yeah
&gt;&gt; and what have been some of the biggest
surprises along the way I mean startups
are notoriously hard even when things
are going super well. And so when you
look back on like what you thought the
role was going to entail, what it's
actually required of you, how has
Granola changed Sam?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, many many many ways. Um uh I think
I think um
I think a thing we had to learn for the
first year especially like when we were
this was like we'd started working we'd
raised some money but we hadn't launched
the product we were just iterating
trying to figure out what version one of
the product was um was uh
uh it was incredibly like
I feel
my [clears throat] um what's the word?
Day by day I could I could feel like,
man, we're really on to something. We're
going to we're going to make it. And
then the next day, it would be like, oh
Jesus, like uh like somebody's just
announced some really cool thing.
Doesn't that kind of make us irrelevant?
Or like uh um ah the nobody's using the
product today. What's going on? Um
um I would I was It was a real like up
and down roller.
&gt;&gt; It's the weekend. People aren't working.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And and and like most
of this had not much basis in reality,
you know, it's just like how how do you
wake up and how do you feel on a on a
given day? Um but like I guess
I I never worked on a big team, you
know. I'd always worked on tiny teams as
the only designer. But even then a team
that has momentum has momentum and
certain momentum carries you forward day
by day. Um and uh it was kind of I mean
I mean I was working with Chris and and
with the early engineers so I we had
some momentum between us but like uh you
know when you're that tiny you you have
to provide your own steam like every day
to keep going. It's hard. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And I can't help I but like raise the
fact that again you guys are building
this in London, right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; What is it about the ecosystem? How how
is Granola a uniquely British or London
startup? Like what is it about the place
in which you work that maybe feeds
itself into the product? Because I often
encounter folks that are assuming that
oh I thought they were in New York or I
assumed it was out in the Bay Area. I
had no idea that it's built in a wholly
different country. Yeah. And that's the
thing that I find most romantic about
this particular company is that it is
&gt;&gt; London native. What what what do you
think feeds into
company building, product development
that comes from the London environment?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think um
uh I think I honestly I think there are
a bunch of disadvantages to to being in
London as well. Like like everyone was
trying to persuade us to come to San
Francisco in the first year for very
good reasons. [laughter]
But uh I am I'm very proud that we are
in London and I and I feel like now
uh I wouldn't be anywhere else like we
like it's a great place to be. Um I
think the benefits though of it have
been like uh
um even when we were tiny um we and we
like put up our hand you know and we're
like hey we you know we want people to
come work with us and and build
something together. um
we got to it's just a it's a much
smaller pond and it's definitely a much
smaller pond in the kind of thing that
we're building there. There really
aren't many teams in London uh trying to
you know like help people be better at
work with AI. Um there's a lot of
fintech stuff. there's a lot of uh
there's a lot of kind of B2B stuff, but
um I think we we got to be like one of
the few voices uh and and therefore like
a bit of a I don't know like a magnet
hopefully for the for the right kind of
people. Um and you know, we deliberately
tried to make like our our like first
hiring manifesto kind of romantic and
kind of like dreamy and and to try and
find those people wherever they were in
London. Um and uh I think
what's nice now is we're like a team of
50 in London and um uh from getting
those first few that were drawn to the
vision and to working on this kind of
product that's kind of snowballed really
beautifully I think to to to now we're
50 people who think like that and care
about that. And um uh I I think just in
a in a more competitive space where like
San Francisco where there are more teams
who think like that and build like that.
Um I think we would struggle to to to
like have such a unique kind of culture.
&gt;&gt; I I want to touch on culture because you
know I feel like that's one of the key
responsibilities for the founding team.
How has your toolkit applied itself to
developing and and cultivating the
culture of Granola? Like what what have
you found to be useful? What advice do
you have to founders that are now on
that part of the journey of like okay
now that the company that I build is the
team that I build? Um how can a designer
founder apply that toolkit to that
exercise?
&gt;&gt; Um it's a good question. Uh,
&gt;&gt; how do you think about like managing
culture at Granola?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I think
um what are the things you've done?
Well, I I we had this great piece of
advice by by um an investor's uh um
internal recruiter like we were we were
trying to hire our first engineers and
we spent an afternoon with them, them
helping us like figure out how to do
that. And um I remember Chris and me
were getting really anxious about um
like we need a we were a team of two or
three or something at that point and and
we were like we need we need to hire
like uh wide ranging different kind of
person and like we should be like um we
shouldn't be too close-minded and we
should we should like um if someone
comes to us and they're not exactly like
us, we should consider it because you
know we want to have different points of
view and things like that and and um
and and this this this adviser was
basically like nah nah [laughter]
like you you're you're like two people
uh and and ultimately like you're the
founders of the company at this stage
like you're deciding your own destiny
and whether you like it or not the
company's going to be a reflection of
you like like that's just going to
happen whether you like it or not and
you fight it like only bad things are
going to happen and and really just you
got to lean into it. Um, and I I found
that personally incredibly helpful. It
just helped me relax about like
basically like a lot of a lot of our
early hiring decisions, you know, we're
like we do the basic stuff to to
determine whether the person feels
competent, but then you're like, am I
going to enjoy spending my my days with
this person and does this person give me
energy? And um, yeah, I I think I
initially felt really bad about
listening to that voice inside of me,
but like but now it's it's most of how I
decide who I want to hire and and it's
surfaced well so far. Are there other
qualities that you look for in addition
to just I got a good vibe with this
person?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I think um uh
for Granola specifically, we we kind of
look in everyone for like a high degree
of empathy and like care for like
um if it's an engineer, we we want to we
want to believe that they really care
about the person that they're solving
the problem for. Um we've we've turned
down a lot of really really competent
engineers who get overly excited about
the technical problem in front of them
and forget that it's a human being that
they're trying to solve the technical
problem for. Um but I think that kind of
applies to to all disciplines, you know.
I think I think the
I think some of the most successful
people we've hired have been like
enthusiastic granola users and have
really felt the like how it's helped
them in their life before. And um Yeah.
Yeah. I I feel like when when you build
a company as a designer co-founder, one
of the things that I've heard repeatedly
is that it it's become a direct
expression of your own design
philosophy. Um what are you starting to
see echo back? What qualities are you
seeing in Granola the company, Granola,
the product that reminds you of you
where you're like, "Oh yeah, that is me.
That's it's it's coming back to me."
Um that's a good question. Uh,
I think we like
I'll include Chris in this. I think we
we like we like to have fun and we like
not to take ourselves too seriously. And
I think that comes across in like the um
I mean fact I think the fact that the
name Granola Stuck was like part of it's
like a good uh expression of that. And I
think that's like permeated through the
team and I think shows up in like um
like crunched the the Spotify rap thing
we did um in the holidays. Um, did
anyone else feel like they peered into
their soul? [laughter]
Um, for those of you unfamiliar, the
crunch was a a year-end feature that
basically synthesized, you know, months
and months of meeting notes and provided
like highle overviews on like your
relationships, your personality traits,
I don't know, a whole bunch of things
that I I felt were like deeply
validating because it was a summary of
like, yeah, this is how I spent the past
year collaboratively, the kinds of
conversations I have, the advice that I
give, and I've got the receipts to show
it. Yeah. It turns out Granola knows
what more about me than I realized.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it was a it was a
beautiful thing because it was um I
think Chris and I both thought it was a
bad idea and [laughter]
and and kind of dismissed dismissed it
for a long time and like you know and
and just really went into it and uh you
know it's like it's like it's going to
be a ton of effort. It's going to be
over in a day and then it's going to
dissolve into nothing and like come on
can't we can't we spend our time on more
lasting things? Um, but the team fought
for it rightly and and it's basically
like I think Chris and I had basically
no involvement in making it happen. It
was all uh folks on the team. But I feel
like it like encapsulates so much of the
soul of of the company and and like and
the reasons crunched is different to
things that you've seen before in
software is like I think also true of
how granola is different as a team to to
other teams out there.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Now, I think Sam deserves a little
bit more credit for doing what I I find
to be a really brave thing, which is to
put yourself into your product
onboarding. Um, and so for many of you
who installed Granola, part of the the
the unpackaging of Granola is having
your first meeting and it's a meeting
with with with with Granola Sam and he
kind of explains in practice like how
the application works and um I think
much of the early traction you enjoyed
was just how streamlined that onboarding
was, but you didn't have to push
yourself in it. And so like who's
&gt;&gt; nobody else would. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; That's right.
Well, say a little bit more about that
because you know I appreciate that you
stepped up and and you did it and you
sort of became a part of of the product
and in the process.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it was uh I mean we tried a lot of
other things too like we were it was
really um uh
we were really conscious that like just
the biggest way the product would could
fail I think at the beginning was like
uh just had this hard problem where the
aha moment of the product is is when the
notes generate at the end of a meeting.
in order to get that aha moment. Like if
you had to sign up to the product on uh
Tuesday lunchtime at 12:47, but then
your next meeting is at 3:00, you know,
we've lost you. Like there's no there's
no way you're going to you're going to
you're going to be like, "Oh, what's
this thing granola? Download, click the
button, install, go through the
onboarding, um get to a homepage, be
like, all right, nothing to do." And
then close it and forget about it. Um,
and so like it kind of felt like if we
didn't get you to that aha moment
immediately that we just we've lost you.
Um, and uh, yeah, we tried a bunch of
things like the the the video was kind
of a last resort because it's pretty
heavy lift to make it to make it work.
Um, not totally last resort. The other
idea was that we have we employ people
to be on a permanent Zoom call and so
you could just [laughter] you uh you
could always just like as soon as you
land you click and there's somebody
there to say hi and show you around.
&gt;&gt; Um but uh yeah, this is the compromise.
Um so
yeah. Yeah, we put it up and it was it
was basically like we we we need to just
give you the bare minimum to feel
comfortable and then get you to that aha
moment as quickly as possible.
&gt;&gt; Right. I still like this idea of like a
professional chat roulette as a part of
your granola onboarding experience.
Might want to bring that back. Um early
on you mentioned that you think of these
productivity tools as something that's
deeply personal like a vessel that we
put our lives into and that really
resonated. Um how are you navigating the
tension of of of a single player
resource, something that is mine versus
the natural collaborative aspects of a
granola.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. that have a teamwide context, a
professional context, a context that
spills way outside of personal life.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um I feel like so many startups fail at
answering this question because they get
stuck
&gt;&gt; in single player mode and my Facebook
brain is immediately like
&gt;&gt; you know raise the alarms make
&gt;&gt; the conversations with you have been
very helpful in making us like wake up
to the fact that that
&gt;&gt; but it's al but there's also real
genuine tension here because people that
use granola today do treat it as a as a
private resource. So, how are how are
you currently navigating that from the
design standpoint?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I think um uh it's it's tough
and I don't think we've nailed it yet,
honestly. Like um I think a lot of the
initial success like like when you
download Granola and you don't know what
what this thing is um is that it feels
private, intimate, safe, like it feels
like a notes app that you're used to.
And a notes app you're used to is yours.
You know, you can write whatever you
want in there and no one's going to see
it. Um and so I think I think that's
just so important to us that I think we
have to keep it. And um and I also think
like from you know we've we've I feel
like we've um
we've done like the equivalent of like
uh
we've been like therapists for for for
people's people people's meeting
behavior. You know, at this point, we've
like talked to hundreds or thousands of
people about how they do meetings and
how they take notes and and um I think a
universal truth there is like uh part of
taking notes is is like having a space
for your brain to feel free and safe to
just write down the [ __ ] that that it
wants to. And a lot of what we put on
the paper like when we're taking notes
is like
um kind of stupid or like uh it's it's
definitely not something that you want
someone else to see. and and um and I
think if granola doesn't support and
encourage that behavior, then I think
we're dead in the water. Like I think
we've got to we got to meet you where
people are and and that's like they want
to have a place to write that's theirs.
Um yeah, so for those reasons, I feel
like Granola is basically I think we're
we're on a path where we have to be kind
of default private to you in a lot of
scenarios. Um and yeah, then the
challenge is like there's also this
incredible value in teams using Granola
together and how do you bridge that gap?
Um I think
we're still figuring this out honestly
like like I think um at the moment the
the we have um uh this concept of team
spaces where you can uh uh like put like
folders you know you put the the meeting
notes that you're okay being shared into
shared spaces um we have some suggestion
mechanics to try and make that easy. Uh,
and I think we have a whole team at the
moment working on like a how do we make
this as frictionless as possible but
still like keep your individual agency
to to like feel like you're in control
of of you know making sure that things
you say are in have the privacy level
that's appropriate to them. Um,
it's it's like they'll uh I could see
this evolving a lot over the next couple
months. So we we we're playing with like
um real-time collaboration in the
notepad at the moment. And uh that
surprisingly feels to me at least okay a
lot of the time to to maybe be a default
on thing like internally in a team like
if if you're just meeting with folks
that you meet with a lot and you feel
kind of safer with them and it feels
more okay to share the notepad. Um
&gt;&gt; hard to agree here. Yes.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. But but like less okay. You
wouldn't want if you're doing a sales
call, you don't want to share the
notepad with the person you're trying to
sell to, right? That's that would be a
really bad idea. So, uh, so there's
there's like tons of social nuance to
navigate here to make it feel okay.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; I, um, gosh, I have so many questions. I
I really want to talk a little bit about
the road ahead. Um, because
as you're aware, as we're aware,
everyone's seeing Granola's lead and
they're like, "Oh, wow. That's really
smart. I should put this in my Zoom
application." Notion's like, "I should
put this inside my notion platform." and
you're going to be facing competitive
pressure from incumbents and startups
across the street from here. Um, how are
you navigating the competition that's
emerged? What do you think is going to
have to be true for Granola to prevail?
Um, and then where do you hope to see
the product evolve? What can this room
kind of expect from Granola um under
this new brand in the year 2026? Yeah, I
think on the on the like um on the first
part of that, I think uh
there so many companies are trying
really cool things out there, you know,
and so we're obviously constantly
looking and being inspired by good ideas
that other people have that we can
incorporate into Granola. Um, but I
think uh we also have to play to our
strength and I think the the the big
strength that we have is that um people
that use granola use it habitually for
all their meetings. It's like a starts
to feel like a prosthetic over time and
um I think we really have to protect and
encourage that habit because that's kind
of the groundwork for everything we want
to do in the future. Um, and that means
keeping the product really simple,
really streamlined in the the core like
flow that that everyone's used to. Um,
yeah. So, and I think like um
it's a hard thing to copy. It's a it I
don't know. It's like a and it's also a
hard thing to put I can't really put my
finger on like what about granola makes
people feel that way, you know? It's
like probably the sum of a bunch of
things. Um,
so yeah, we got to we got to protect
that. And then I think in the in the
future I think that the game for us is
like the world is evolving so quickly
and it's where like um uh AI is letting
us do so much more you know like like
Claude co-workers is is like so so
bloody impressive like and uh I think
like
I I think the the our kind of philosophy
has always been like um
we you know as much as possible we want
to ride these waves. Like when people
come up with good stuff like this and
and it makes sense to incorporate the
product, we we should um and so I think
there are there are parts of what these
general purpose AI products offer that
we will be able to do better because we
have the context of what's happening in
your meetings. We're like a thing that's
already on your screen because you just
used this in in your last meeting. Um
and uh I think the brand also helps with
that. like I think a brand that you that
you trust and that feels personal. It's
like a an important thing in making you
feel okay to to to kind of to work with
very closely. Um so yeah, we have I
think I think we have to try and just
incorporate the the best of the
technology world out there in a way that
makes sense for us. Um, and also I I
think um it's very tempting to kind of
uh and I feel this especially in San
Francisco talking to people because it's
such a hype driven place, you know, like
uh um we're always like chasing the next
the next idea and the next idea. Um, and
the thing that helps me stay sane, I
think, is is remembering that like uh
most real people like this isn't the
real world here, you know, and like most
real people out there like like I don't
know what the [ __ ] to do with Claude yet
or like any of these things. And um and
so if we can just nail like being really
useful at one very specific thing um on
top of meeting notes, that's already a
huge deal for most people like and and
um and yes, we should make really
powerful open-ended tooling for for like
people in San Francisco, but also for
the rest of the world like if just small
steps done really really well, I think
can lead to a product that that is is
used by by tons and tons of people.
&gt;&gt; I love it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah,
&gt;&gt; that's a wonderful note to end on. Um,
Sam Stevenson, thank you so much for
spending your time with us. I know you
didn't fly all the way out to have this
conversation, but I'm grateful you're
here. Thank you. Thank you for your
question, Bridget. Thank you all.
[applause]
