原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hf4ZhtJmCyo

The real advantage that submarines bring
is our stealth and access. We can pretty
much go anywhere in the world
undetected. We can carry nuclear
missiles on our ballistic missile
submarines and that ensures that we
continue our decades of peace without
nuclear war. That any country that tried
to attack us with nuclear weapons would
be destroyed. At the end of the cold
war, we walked away from manufacturing.
The amount of work that we need now to
replenish our fleet is on the order of
about 70 million hours.
&gt;&gt; The power of combining the new
workforce, American software, American
steel, and American spirit is you have
to get this productivity jump somehow
with advanced factories. It's not a
money problem. We have to get this
productivity uplift by fusing workforce
training and software together to go a
lot faster.
I am very very very very lucky to have
two incredible folks joining me on
stage. This is going to be a
conversation you do not want to miss. So
in addition to having Chris Power, the
founder and CEO of Hrien, who you heard
earlier, we also have Admiral Robert
Goucher, who is in charge of all
submarine production for the United
States Navy. Let me give you a quick
background. For those of you that are
not familiar with the defense industrial
base, the Navy is an extraordinary
force. They operate across the largest
domain on Earth. They cover more than
70% of the planet and the Navy is
responsible for projecting American
power, maintaining deterrence and
ensuring stability across that entire
space. This is a service that has been
operating continuously since 1775.
That's 250 years already. It's adapted
into new technologies, new threats, new
missions, and it remains one of the most
capable institutions in the world. And
that's why we're here in Cherokee.
That's why we're opening this facility.
We're opening of Hadrien's Factory 4, a
2.25 25 million square foot advanced
manufacturing facility that's going to
support the Colombia and Virginia class
submarine programs. So let's let's just
start out actually with with you
Admiral. For people that are not
familiar with the real world problems,
what problems do we solve with
submarines? Why do we have a submarine
program? And why is it important that we
rebuild our submarine program? I think
the real advantage that submarines bring
is our stealth and access. We can pretty
much go anywhere in the world
undetected. And so that becomes a a very
big threat for our enemies or
adversaries. And uh as I look at the the
two biggest missions that we satisfy, um
we have fast attack submarines that go
out and operate and they make sure that
our seaways and waterways remain free
and open to anybody who would try to
shut them down. And you heard uh Chris
talk about, you know, how Australia
needs to get, you know, supplies from
external. Well, the submarine force can
make sure that those supplies make it
when they need to and where they need
to. The other mission, which is our
number one mission in the Department of
War, is strategic deterrence. So, we car
we can carry nuclear missiles on our
ballistic missile submarines like the
Colombia class that we're building. And
that ensures that we continue our
decades of peace without nuclear war. Uh
because the submarines are unable to be
found. So that assures that any country
that tried to attack us with nuclear
weapons would be destroyed. And that's
why we call them the survivable leg of
our nuclear triad.
&gt;&gt; That is that second strike capability.
So nobody attacks us because they know
the submarines are out there and they
can attack back. when when we talk about
industrial capacity, I'll start with
you, Admiral, then I'll go to Chris.
What does it mean to say that we need
industrial capacity?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, what what it means just a
quick history lesson. Um, at the end of
the cold war, we walked away from
manufacturing. We we had we only built
uh you know about three submarines uh
through the 1990s until we started up
the Virginia class program again. And
even when we were uh building at a rate
of one per year, you know, that's that
was only about 13 million hours of work
that was required to build a single
Virginia class submarine. The amount of
work uh that we need now to build our 2
plus one to replenish our fleet and to
replace our Ohio class ballistic missile
submarines with Colombia is on the order
of about 70 million hours. So that's
more than five times as much as where we
were uh just a little over a decade ago.
And so we're still on that trajectory
and uh because of uh you know the the
focus on ship building and maritime
dominance uh we're really trying to
supercharge that with investments like
we have here at Hrien.
&gt;&gt; And Chris, how how do you think about
industrial capacity and what it is and
what it means?
&gt;&gt; I think about it very similarly to the
Vice Admiral. Um at the end of the day,
the capital equipment can be purchased
by Hrien and all of Hrien's investors or
the United States Navy. But the real
thing that we lost post the Cold War was
the skilled workforce. Um, and that's
that's what we talk about when we say
hours. And because we cut the jobs down
by you you lost n out of 10 jobs. And
then we told all the kids in the 80s and
90s that in manufacturing, you know, go
get a four-year journalism degree. So
the big gut is that really smart people
that work and through the rest of the
enterprise we need 10 20 times more of
them to even catch up and meet the
viceal's goals but most of them are in
their late 50s mid60s cuz we lost this
demographic of skilled people for us the
power of combining the new workforce you
know it's going to American software
American steel and American spirit is
you have to get this productivity jump
somehow with advanced factories
otherwise
It's not a money problem. We could we
could spend $10 billion hiring this man,
you know, 2 million welders that he
needs. They just don't exist in the
country. We have to get this
productivity uplift by fusing workforce
training and software together to go a
lot faster. That is the main problem. It
is it is a people problem.
&gt;&gt; So, Admiral, you stepped into a new
role. You've served in the Navy for a
long time, but you are the Pentagon's
first direct reporting portfolio manager
for submarines. That means you report
directly to Deputy Defense Secretary
Steven Fineberg. People have
colloquially called you the submarine
ZAR. What is a submarine ZAR and why was
this role created? Can't we just order
submarines and get submarines?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, the reason that uh the deputy
secretary of war decided to create the
direct report portfolio managers or uh
we call them derpams
&gt;&gt; by the submarines are is a much better
title than derpo. So, so the uh there's
three that were created and they are all
related to critical, you know, strategic
deterrence missions. So, you have Golden
Dome which is meant to defend the
country against missile attacks. Then
you have the uh critical major weapons
systems which are the air force nuclear
triad program. So, the bombers and the
groundbased uh intercontinental
ballistic missiles. And then the third
leg of the strategic triad is
submarines. Um and so that you know you
see that nuclear strategic focus where
we said we've got to get these programs
right and so the deputy wanted to make
sure that they got elevated so that any
bureaucracy that could be inserted um
you know along the way could just be
shortcircuited so that we really focus
on the outcome that we want which is to
build more submarines uh to stand up
Golden Dome and then to you know fix our
groundbased leg and airbase uh leg of
the triad. So h how do you think about
success over the next three to five
years? We heard about this factory
being, you know, a 50-year plus
initiative, but how do you think about
success in the near term?
&gt;&gt; Well, I look I look at success as being
on the cadence to deliver the submarines
we need to deliver. I mean, we we may
not be at the rate in three years, but
we have to be closing on it and and we
have to have all the levers that we that
we need to pull moving in the right
direction. And and so obviously a huge
portion of that is this outsourced um
work as we build capacity because we we
don't have enough of it in our private
shipyards that you know traditionally
build submarines. Um so we need to
spread that throughout the rest of the
country in order to be able to get that
capacity up and to be able to hit the
cadence that we need.
&gt;&gt; So this next question I'll start with
Chris but then I'll go to you Admiral.
What what is the hardest part of working
with the government, working with the
Navy, coordinating across primes, you
know, working with all the other folks
you work with, working with legislators,
you know, how hard is it to actually
restart this industrial base? I would
say three three years ago it was
incredibly difficult and now honestly to
pull something like this off for the
last six seven months with Deputy
Secretary Fineberg uh Secretary Failen
honestly compared to the size and scale
of something like this if you're in the
commercial sector is pretty fast but
it's because Congress uh both Senate and
the House the Navy the department of war
um has really, you know, hit the go fast
button and removed a lot of these
blockers. And secondly, it's cultural.
You know, one of the smartest things we
could be doing is, hey, there is a
single accountable person that just runs
this instead of 20 people trying to
contribute. And now that that's all
getting cleaned up, not just in
submarines, but in drone dominance, in
Golden Dome, you know, unfortunately,
you know, the vice admiral's got one of
the toughest jobs at the company, but
there is now a single person in command
and control of the entire enterprise.
They can make fast decisions, take
risks, place multiple bets. You know,
we're going to be successful here at
Adrian with this enterprise, but we need
to put like all of the bets in the
ground now because the, you know, three
to four years for us to pay off. So
let's just do multiple things. That's
not possible unless there's a single man
or woman in charge. And that's been the
biggest sea change of how it's how easy
or hard it is to deal with legislature,
the Navy, the Department of War.
&gt;&gt; And Admiral Goucher, you have a lot of
different stakeholders that you're
hurting together, prime suppliers, other
folks across the the Pentagon. What are
you finding to be the the most difficult
parts to coordinating success?
&gt;&gt; Well, I think I think you nailed it. is
that there are a lot of stakeholders and
um I I kind of jokingly say when when
you there's a law of conservation of
authority. So when I get it, somebody
else loses it. Uh and so you've still
got to work through all that and and the
truth is we're really in the transition
program. I mean I'm really about a month
into the job right now. Uh and so we we
want to do that in a controlled manner.
A good example is, you know, this
Hadrien deal was on the cusp uh of being
solved and so, you know, I went and
talked to Jason Potter and the secretary
and we said, "Hey, you know, don't jump
in the middle of this. Let's get this
across the goal line." And and so things
like that. But as we kind of move
forward and I am starting to take things
on, um we just got to make sure that we
have a smooth transition. So hopefully
within a couple months, I'll be able to
say that, hey, I've passed that and I'm
on to bigger problems of actually, you
know, how do we build submarines faster?
uh and that we're moving that ball down
the field.
&gt;&gt; And and Admiral, I'm going to ask you a
question about drones and missile
interceptors because I we see them in
the news all the time in the fight in
Iran. We see we see lots of talk about
drones and missile interceptors. It's a
pretty rare opportunity to have someone
like you who has been a submarine
commander who can talk about the silent
fleet to to a certain extent. Um talk
about where submarines still fit in even
a modern conflict today. um to the
extent that you us give give us some
insight into how we should think about
the the criticality of submarines beyond
just the the second strategic deterrence
and the nuclear triad.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I think um I think as long
as we keep thinking forward and pacing
our adversaries, submarines will always
have a place. Um you know, I I look at,
you know, just today our ability to get
off of another country's coast
undetected. Um we can choose what we
want to deploy from there. I mean, I I
can, you know, shoot a missile or I can
shoot a torpedo. And as we look to
underwater drones, you know, we can
start to tailor those. The real
advantage there is that we can then
build the payload and whatever I want to
deliver outside of the submarine and
then I just have to figure out how to
load it on and I can pick my payload,
you know, so whatever the conflict is of
the future, you know, that gives us an
opportunity. The other thing that we can
do um because we're self- sustaining, we
have our own defense, we have our own
command and control capability is I
could control other things, you know, so
I could see a world where a submarine
goes far forward. It connects with the
network of drones to give the signal. So
you still have the human in the loop to
make the decision um or to see what's
happening and provide that um and the
submarine may never have to shoot a
weapon.
&gt;&gt; Amazing. I want to shift to the factory
here in Alabama. Chris, this is more
than just a factory. It's really going
to be a modern advanced manufacturing
facility. Talk to us a little bit about
how a modern software-driven factory
works differently than a traditional
factory. There are two big things.
And big thing number one is we don't
have enough machinists. We don't have
enough quality inspectors. We don't have
enough welders in the country. So at
that task level, we have to get them 90%
more productive and make the rest of the
time human in the loop easier because if
you want to train a Navy welder today,
it's going to take you a decade. So we
have to augment the skills with software
and also make it more accessible for
training your workforce. Like that's
number one because if we translate the
70 million hours target into people with
software we can make that you know 50%
less people 70% less people. The second
thing is the flexibility that
constructing something like a submarine
demands is incredibly what we call high
mix low volume. Right? So if you're
building a Toyota Camry you're making
20,000 of them a year. You can set up
production lines that are just cranking
out, you know, nuts, bolts, components,
assemblies in traditional kind of
factory automation like Foxcom with
Apple, right? You can easily automate a
million iPhones. What the software
enables is running at that level of
factory productivity, but with the
flexibility that something like a
submarine demands because you don't
necessarily need a hundred of the same
thing. You need one and you need a
slight variant. Especially with
sustainment and maintenance and even
submarine construction, you don't know
when you need stuff anyway. Okay, so
having this like flexible manufacturing
system, apart from the raw productivity,
it really is the speed and flexibility
to reconfigure lines to give the yards
what they need kind of on demand versus
oh no, I realize that I need a spare to
keep submarine construction going and
you go back to the supply chain and it
might take 12 months and the whole the
whole thing's just stalled out. So it's
really the velocity and agility and
reducing the amount of people because we
just don't have the people in the US. We
have to get this productivity uplift
with software and a new workforce.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think people, you know, I've
seen some of your other factories and
your other facilities and people are are
going to come to start to recognize the
importance of being able to change out
the product line, increase throughput,
have better visibility into the entire
production line. It's really uh
tremendous. You know, Admiral, when you
look at a facility like this, I know
you're still ramping up to speed in your
new job, but you look at the potential
of a facility like this and you start to
dive into the supply chain, you know,
where do you feel we can make the most
impact around capacity? Um, where do you
feel like there's the biggest
bottlenecks and areas where we might
find other opportunity to help to help
increase our rate of production?
So, uh, there's a there's a couple
tenative the direct answer to your
question, things that I'm I'm looking at
right away for this facility. So, you
know, there is, um, one thing is our
inservice submarine. So, submarines that
have already been built but have to go
through their periodic maintenance, uh,
maybe to repair a pump or a valve. I
think the opportunity to take obsolete
parts where the companies have gone out
of business, turn it over to Chris, have
them figure out, you know, how to uh
manufacture use at the facility here
obsolete parts and then turn them back
over so we can keep the existing
submarines running will be a huge early
opportunity for us. Then um the other
part of this is one of the big holders
and I'm going to riff a little bit off
what Chris was just saying with the
factory. Um there's really three things
you need to build a submarine, right?
You got to have people, right? So at
some point you have to turn some
wrenches. Okay, those people have to be
productive. And what I would tell you is
in some areas today um we might are we
are less than 50% productive. So I'm
essentially for every two people I'm
getting one hour, right? And and that's
no one's fault. That's just where we
are. It has to do with experience. It is
an exceptionally difficult process. So
that and and that's always been that
way. But I think even if we were
operating at our peak performance of the
mid1 1980s when we were pumping out four
submarines a year, we were still only at
about 7 or 08. I mean there's there's
only so so productive you can get with a
human. So I think by using machines, we
have an opportunity to actually get that
productivity up so that not only are we
able to run it around the clock, we're
able to be more effective in doing it.
And then the last thing that you need is
you need the actual parts which we've
been talking about. And the biggest
thing that we find as you go walk around
our yards that slows them down and stops
them is what's called sequence critical
material. Right? So you get to the point
where I've got one more part I've got to
have and I can't finish the step and I
and so I've got to get to that and and
be able to uh manufacture it. So as as
we get spun up past the first articles
and we really show the capability of
this plant, I think those will be the
types of things that we push down here.
And Chris and I have already talked
about things. It's things like air
flasks. Um it's things like our hatches,
you know, for escape trunks and things
like that. Um that he's very confident
we'll be able to do here in this plant.
&gt;&gt; That that's fantastic. And I think yeah,
having software, as Chris mentioned,
play a role in making sure that, you
know, if you only have 95% of the parts,
that's not enough to make a submarine.
You need 100%. And h having software
help drive some of that production line
and provide visibility is really key. So
Chris, turning it back over to you. How
are you going to prove to the Navy that
uh you can set, you know, bring up this
capability and deliver quickly?
&gt;&gt; Firstly, you know, we've already proven
it, but I will say this is a like
generational huge lift, right? This is
going to be six, 700 people just setting
the thing up. Uh, you know what I what I
think is we've got a really good plan.
We've got really good partners in the
Navy. We've got really good partners in
the primes that own the designs. And I
think everyone understands that we're
going to go super fast and shove things
through the qualification system as fast
as possible to make sure we're derisking
it as fast as possible. And then
building a submarine is complicated.
Like some of this is going to come
online fast in 7 months and some of it's
going to take 2 years. The other thing,
frankly, is that we're dedicated to is
the way we've structured this is
basically we we can't be successful out
the Navy, but we're also capital at
risk. So we are strongly incentivized to
basic I'm sorry it comes down to culture
sweat bullets until we pull this off not
just because of the mission because of
how we've structured this entire
enterprise.
&gt;&gt; Okay so we're going to wrap up here in a
few minutes I want to talk about a
couple last questions. Um the first, you
know, we talk about a Colombia C class
submarine costs $16 billion, takes
almost a decade to build, carries the
nuclear deterrent. And then in my world,
in the venture capital world, we talk
about companies like Seronic and Ander
that are building very small uh much
more lowerc cost autonomous vessels,
underwater drones. They cost a fraction
of that and they're designed to be a
traitable, to be expendable. How do
these things fit together, Admiral?
Well, I think that the process of
manufacturing some of those drones has
some, you know, similar corollaries
because you're you're having to build an
integrated system. And so when you build
a submarine, that's a a similar process.
So you'd actually some of the experience
that companies like Anderol get from
building these unmanned systems can
translate to building modules for
submarines. Uh and to be honest, I had
that conversation two days ago with
Anderoll um and how we get to that uh
that end state. So um I I do think there
are some corlaries but you also have to
remember that uh you know those those
drone capabilities are typically a
single mission and part of the value of
whether it's a submarine or a surface
ship you know with with humans on board
is that they are multi-m missission
systems uh you know so they're not just
a niche tool they're a responsive
versatile tool that can do any number of
things
&gt;&gt; I liked your your comment earlier about
also they the submarines can be the
command and control for a whole fleet of
autonomous systems. I thought that was
very cool. Chris, I want to kind of
start to wrap up with you here. This is
factory 4. Um, you know, you you're
endeavoring to have factories 5, 6, 7, 8
and beyond.
uh what has to go right to make this
model repeatable across the country and
what's you know maybe what's one
misconception that you want to make sure
that everyone here today and everyone
who's listening at home when we when we
release this you know what what's one
misconception that you want to correct
for them so that they know about
building and manufacturing here in the
US
&gt;&gt; I think you know the biggest
misconception is you know hey it's all
automated we don't need the people like
the amount of software engineers the
amount of smart people from Tesla and
SpaceX X and G that we need to set the
things up and the amount of workforce
development. It has to be a national
mission and it's all about the people
and the productivity combined. We've
already proven that we can do this in
different states. I I think people do
not understand how complicated a
submarine is to construct and design.
And secondly, if you think about easy
manufacturing and difficult
manufacturing and maybe you put Starship
at the top of the list, submarines in
terms of tolerancing and precision and
quality and welding are easily number
one. So to do something like this for
the first time ever that's not, you
know, the the private shipyards or the
Navy itself and do that knowledge
transfer is a huge deal because it's not
just making this stuff. the the level of
precision and quality we have to operate
here is as hard if not more difficult as
building building a rocket or something
like that. And this is like a very very
serious endeavor because this man has to
send a bunch of sailors underwater and
like this thing has to go 100% right for
30 40 years. It's huge.
&gt;&gt; Admiral Goucher, we are very very lucky
to have you here. I believe these are
your first sort of public public remarks
since you've taken on this new role.
You've been a submarine commander. Uh we
are just incredibly fortunate to have
you here. We're incredibly fortunate to
have you serving our country. Both of
you gentlemen, I want to thank you for
being here, for everything you're doing
for uh for our country and uh thanks for
doing this.
&gt;&gt; Thank you, David. Appreciate it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, thanks very much.
