原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJSnn0GZmls

I thought a lot about what I would feel
about the world my future kids would
grow up in. Like my highest order bit is
to not destroy the world with AI. Like
doesn't matter how good everything else
is if we do that.
&gt;&gt; Open AI take one.
&gt;&gt; I'm Lorie Seagull and you're listening
to Mostly Human, a tech podcast through
a human lens.
&gt;&gt; Sam, how long have we known each other?
Like
&gt;&gt; almost 20 years.
&gt;&gt; But we've known each other a really long
time. So, I'm excited to sit down with
you at this moment because I've sat down
with you throughout your career and I've
seen all sorts of iterations of it. Um,
I would argue this is the most important
seat you have sat in
&gt;&gt; for sure.
&gt;&gt; The stakes feel really high. We are in
this moment where we're wondering if
this technological innovation is going
to be incredible for all of us or
incredible for some of us. Do you feel
that?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean we are clearly entering the
phase where AI is going to be one of the
high order bits of how our future
society gets shaped and I
I think people feel all of the
excitement, fear, anxiety, hope,
nervousness all at once.
&gt;&gt; I'd love to go back um to when I met you
like in 2010. This is long before the
release of Chat GBT and AI's integration
into the world. Um, I remember I was
just a cub reporter and I was obsessed
with this thing called startups that
people weren't really talking too much
about. It wasn't normal to get into a
stranger's car. That's Uber, by the way,
or sleep in a stranger's home. That's
Airbnb. Um, and it was just this really
interesting moment where the iPhone had
come out, the app store had launched,
and you could have this idea and you
could code it into the hands of millions
of people. Um, it didn't feel like tech
feels today. It felt anti-establishment.
It felt a little bit punk rock.
&gt;&gt; And so I just want to ground this. And I
met you at that moment, right? I met you
on a random bench um to put you on
camera for the first time. You had a
geoloccation app called Looped.
&gt;&gt; Um and it was a moment in time. You
didn't have a massive company. You
didn't have PR people. It was just like,
you know, you and I I assume like a
handful of folks building out this thing
that you thought could be the future.
&gt;&gt; Tell me how you would describe yourself
then and that moment in time before we
get to this moment now, which is just so
incredibly different.
&gt;&gt; The world had really changed. You could
make mobile apps. A whole new kind of
startup potential had unleashed itself.
And it did feel kind of like
punk rock is a nice way of saying it,
but like chaotic, unorganized,
unprofessional. Like most of us really
didn't really know what we were doing.
Um, and you know, now it's been more
systematized and startups feel very
different and they raise a ton of money
right away and they grow really fast and
there there's like a playbook that's
been figured out. But it almost felt
like that was like the pre-paradigm
stage. Um, and it felt really fun. kind
of felt like we all didn't know what we
were doing, but clearly something was
working. Um, so I look back on that
phase with like a very pleasant
nostalgia.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Also, the stakes felt so low. That was
nice, too.
&gt;&gt; I think that was something I was
thinking about when I was sitting here
thinking about coming to to meet you
today. Like I've interviewed you at many
points in your career and it just feels
like I I mean the stakes are so high
now.
&gt;&gt; Um, you let's go back to the last time I
interviewed you was 2020. You're the CEO
of OpenAI at the time, but it's before
you guys had launched ChatGpt. You said
something to me um that I think was
really interesting to hear back now. Um
that I want to play for you real quick.
&gt;&gt; I may be wrong, but what I actually
believe is we're going to create this
technology that is more transformative
than any technology humans have ever
created. And almost no one is paying
attention or talking about it. I really
genuinely believe that this is going to
change the world in unrecognizable ways.
It's going to make what we talked about
happening earlier with the iPhone look
like a warm-up. And we got to talk about
that.
&gt;&gt; Okay. I think you were right. I mean,
&gt;&gt; yeah, it was pretty accurate.
&gt;&gt; I think that was pretty accurate. So,
let's fast forward.
&gt;&gt; The the thing that's amazing is like
just how that's six years.
&gt;&gt; That was six years ago.
&gt;&gt; So much that's not very long.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. and like so and at the time that I
think that probably sounded like a crazy
thing to say that was like preGPT
I mean maybe we had GPD3 it depends when
in the year that was but
&gt;&gt; a lot has happened very quickly
&gt;&gt; yeah I mean and I think that's what you
talk about with the rate of acceleration
and which is why you talk about the
stakes we talk about the stakes being so
high so like now this 2026 open AAI is
reportedly valued at like a trillion
dollars you're now forprofit uh no
longer a nonprofit and you're building
one of the most powerful technologies in
in human history and the company is
incredibly valuable.
&gt;&gt; Um so you talked a little bit before
about where we are in AI. You said
something um you said that based off the
current trajectory, it's possible we're
only two years away from a world with
more of the cognitive capacity in the
world inside of data centers um than
outside of them. I mean tell me the
implications of that. Yeah, it's easy to
say, "Oh, we're going to have super AGI
here or super intelligence here." But
the there but the reason I try to say
things like that is I think if you just
say we're going to have AGI soon, people
are like, "Okay, I don't really know
what that means or how to think about
it." If you say like the AI is going to
do more of the total thinking than
people are, that kind of like gets
across the magnitude of what's happening
in in a way that to me at least I feel
differently than just saying like AGI is
coming soon.
&gt;&gt; In what sense?
&gt;&gt; I'm not like a long-term jobs doomer. I
think we'll figure out new things to do.
I think we always do. But
in the short term, I think it may.
Again, we don't know. It could work in
all these different ways. I think it may
and likely will be quite disruptive to a
lot of the current jobs if more of the
intellectual horsepower in the world is
GPUs. And I think like right now we've
got to start talking about the
principles for how we want to design an
economy that works for everybody if
that's going to happen. Now there's
tremendous upside too if you have that
world. You can also you could imagine
curing diseases extremely quickly. The
coolest meeting I had this week was a
guy who was not an expert that used Chat
GPT to make a custom mRNA vaccine for
his dog's cancer.
&gt;&gt; Whoa.
&gt;&gt; And it's just incredible. It was crazy.
&gt;&gt; You have meetings like that every single
week.
&gt;&gt; For whatever reason, this one hit me.
Just hearing him tell the story. he flew
in from Australia and um like what he
went through for this dog and what he
was able to do
&gt;&gt; like not just figuring out how to make
the vaccine but developing the
relationships with the professors that
had to like do the work for him once he
told them like here's the sequence and
here's what to do and this the the way
he was able to use Chad GPT full stack
to like do what would have taken a full
research institute um and save his dog
and now he's trying to figure out how to
do this for other people's dogs um is so
incredible. So there, you know, abundant
compute, you can do all of these things.
Um assuming we get the the new version
of
the world right in a way that this works
for everybody and it's not just like a
small number of people have the access
and the resources to do this.
&gt;&gt; Well, you know what I also hear where
I'm like, "Wow, the guy he cured his
dog's cancer. That's amazing." And then
I'm like, "Wait, if he could do that,
like, couldn't someone just build a
pathogen, right? Like what about
building out viruses?" So it's like as
always it's it's you know I imagine
that's something you guys think a lot of
like a lot about when it comes
especially these open source models.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Our thinking around safety has
evolved quite a bit given the way the
ecosystem has developed. We still think
everything we used to think is
important. You know you still have to
build you have to align these models to
get them to behave in a way you want.
You have to build many levels of safety
defense. But as you said, there's this
new thing going on now, which is the
world has to be resilient to lots of AI
from lots of different people and not
all of it will have the same safety
restrictions. So if someone does build
that bad pathogen, we should do
everything we can to prevent them from
building that or releasing it. But we
also need the ability to defend against
it, have rapid response treatments and
vaccines, have the ability to detect
pandemics earlier. This is a particular
area that I'm nervous about. And the
reason we've started talking about this
whole concept of AI resilience, at least
in my own head, the thing that first got
me thinking that we needed to evolve our
approach was this pandemic point in
particular.
&gt;&gt; When you say resilience, like what does
that mean in in practice? Like
&gt;&gt; the ability for society to rapidly
defend against new threats.
&gt;&gt; And how do we do that?
&gt;&gt; Uh well, it depends on what the threat
is. But for this example, it's not
enough to just say like, hey, three
frontier labs in the world. Um, don't
let any of your models be used to
develop a new pathogen. It's in a few
more years when some open source model
is capable of it and a terrorist group
or someone else does that. H what are
you doing today, Frontier Labs that have
an advantage to help help us be ready
for that moment?
&gt;&gt; Right. Right. And there could be like a
collective effort. You think
&gt;&gt; I think it has to be colle different
levels too. You know, mentioned
vaccines.
response. I honestly hoped out of
the world
and I won't say we learned nothing but
we did not make the progress I was
hoping.
&gt;&gt; I want to talk about OpenAI today and
what your biggest priorities are. Um, so
Codeex has really been amazing for us
all to watch and use and it is the first
time that
I feel like I have gotten to use the
future since ChachiBT launched.
&gt;&gt; In what sense?
&gt;&gt; I'll say the positive sense and the
negative one. Um the positive sense is I
any idea I can come up with any piece of
software I want um I can have built you
know by the time I wake up the next
morning and I use this for fun stuff for
serious stuff I'm like very interested
in what it means to mostly automate or
heavily augment my job and you know it's
rather than like ask someone else to
build stuff for me the fact that I can
build these tools myself is amazing
that's like wow this is what it's going
to be like when people get to use a huge
amount of compute and anything they want
they can create like this is the sci-fi
future this is awesome and then the
negative I had with codeex was I had
this list of side projects that I wanted
to build and for the last you know few
years open has been so busy things only
ever got added to it
&gt;&gt; I never did any of them I never built
any of them
&gt;&gt; and I finished the list I ran out of
ideas I ran out of side project ideas
&gt;&gt; and the models are not yet good enough
or at least I figure out how to use them
to help me come up with more ideas.
&gt;&gt; Well, you could use your brain.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, but I had like used my brain for
this list. And so then I had this like
weird thing one Friday a few weekends
ago where I was like, I'm going to go to
bed tonight without Codeex running cuz I
don't have like another idea of thing to
build. That was like a strange feeling.
But but it's really amazing what is
happening with how good CEX has gotten.
I mean the the like we just watched the
usage of this expand and with the next
model I'm sure it'll explode upwards
again. Um the fact that people can now
build such sophisticated things, it's
totally changed our workflow. It's
changed the workflow of many companies,
it's really changed what individuals can
do. And you know, we've talked about
these oneperson startups that may feel
like the punk rock era again. Um that's
going to be fun to explore. And then on
the super app front, um historically
we've talked about two major kind of
priorities that we're going to work
towards. uh one is the automated
researcher where we have systems that
can do scientific research including AI
research on uh on their own and the
other which touches on this kind of uh
startup thing is you know automated
companies like not literally fully
automated companies but where you can so
accelerate a company because the AI can
do not just coding work but huge amounts
of what it takes to run and operate a
company the world can have much more
stuff and we can create you know way
better products and services and it'll
be accessible to way more people to do
that. But then a thing that we didn't
talk as much about, not because we
weren't excited about it, we just
weren't sure how it was going to
manifest itself was
when you take that level of capability
and give it to an individual and just
say, you know, help make my life better.
Uh,
OpenClaw really, I think, showed us a
path there. And the I hate the phrase
super app, but the the combined personal
agent that we're building, the dream
that I have is I get to a point where
there's like enough robustness and trust
I have in the system where I just say,
"Hey, go look around my computer. Go use
the web for me. Go read my messages and
you know, you can
just you can sort of like listen to my
meetings and you know, my just
intermediate my interactions for me and
just start doing useful stuff to me. I
don't have to think. I don't have to ask
you questions, but I've run out of stuff
on my side project list. However, you
can know everything about my life. Start
suggesting more things I should build
and then like help me do them. Uh, so
I'm really excited for that.
&gt;&gt; It's interesting. Um, you know, there is
this concept that floats around of could
the next billion dollar company be
created with like a solo entrepreneur
and AI agency?
&gt;&gt; I believe that has happened. Uh, I
promised I would not share details until
he's ready to announce it, but I believe
that has happened. Can you give us any
details around the details?
&gt;&gt; Um, it is a legitimate single person
billion-dollar company as far as I can
tell. I have not like reviewed the
financials.
&gt;&gt; I mean,
&gt;&gt; but I think it's just happened.
I think folks listening to that would
think well this is AI can be so
unapproachable but the idea that um that
we are entering a world where you don't
have to have a Silicon Valley contacts
you don't have to be able to be in this
club to to build out a company um and
and have a valuation and and I think
openclaw is a really interesting example
for folks who don't know what openclaw
is it's kind of this like AI agent that
just does everything anything which of
course had lots of safety issues. I I
would say like if you're going to give
it access to everything, I this is the
most Silicon Valley thing. I just see
everybody doing this and I'm like what
could go wrong? Like you do have to be
very careful about the security of this,
but
&gt;&gt; you the founder ended up joining the
company. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um and so I don't know if this is like
an aquaire or whatever you want to call
it, but he built this with
&gt;&gt; AI agents and I imagine he
&gt;&gt; he was like one of the top users of
codecs of all time. So he built this
whole thing with codeex and was just
like unbelievably productive in a way
that no single person could have been.
&gt;&gt; Is he one of the early examples you
think of of someone who was able to you
know exit sell or you know have a
company
&gt;&gt; massively successful company with one
person?
&gt;&gt; Does that surprise you at all?
&gt;&gt; No. And I think it's awesome. Um, I mean
the the the individual empowerment that
happens as you were just saying when you
don't have to be part of the Silicon
Valley network. You don't have to know
all these people you can hire and these
VCs that you can convince to give you
money. You can just like just have AI
build it for you. Um, I think that's
awesome. And I think we're seeing the
same thing now in science and a lot of
other fields too. It's not just
startups.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I I'd love to talk about as we're
talking about the company and the focus
of it. It's what are you doing and what
are you not doing? And so apparently
you're not doing Sora anymore. You guys
have made the decision to shut it down.
So, take me to the room, Sam. It's like
3 months ago.
&gt;&gt; OpenAI signs a deal with Disney. This is
like a landmark deal and it in so many
ways. Disney's going to license 200
characters. Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars,
everybody has an opinion on this. Um Bob
Iger, who led the the deal, he said
this, not me. We're bringing together
Disney's iconic stories and characters
with OpenAI's groundbreaking technology.
They're going to invest a billion
dollars. Fast forward three months
later, OpenAI shuts down Sora. What's
the note under the note here?
&gt;&gt; We have a few times in our history
realized something really important is
working or about to work so well that we
have to stop a bunch of other projects.
In fact, this was the original thing
happened with GPT3. Uh we had a whole
portfolio of bets at the time. A lot of
them were working well. We shut down
many projects that were working well
like robotics which we mentioned so that
we could concentrate our compute, our
researchers, our effort into this thing
that we said okay there's a very
important thing happening. Um I did not
expect 3 or 6 months ago to be at this
point we're at now where something very
big and important is about to happen
again with this next generation of
models and the agents they they can
power. But
I love Sora. I love generated videos and
I love our partnership with Disney and
we're working hard with them to find a a
world where they can still do something
amazing and we can help with that. But
we
need to concentrate our compute
and our product capacity into these next
generation of automated researchers and
companies. And
&gt;&gt; it's like the note under the note is
it's about compute.
&gt;&gt; It's always about compute. God, to be a
fly in the wall for that conversation.
Did you call Bob Iger and tell him
personally?
&gt;&gt; Uh, of course. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; How was that?
&gt;&gt; Um, Disney is an amazing company all
around. Uh, and the like the very first
thing that the new Disney CEO Josh said
to me, uh, and I felt like terrible and
I was like, "Hey," you know, he's like,
"I get it."
Uh but
it's super sad always to disappoint a
partner or users or a team all of which
are doing incredible work and the
I mean there are like many hard parts
about being a CEO that you don't get
sympathy for understand but one of them
is like you have to like make a lot of
like very tough resourcing calls and a
lot of good things get
caught up in that because they're not
the most important thing.
&gt;&gt; I want to go back to February 27th. The
Trump administration had a deal with
Anthropic. They're renegotiating the
deal. Anthropic CEO said he's not going
to allow cloud to to be used for
autonomous weapons or to surveil
American citizens. There was a big
public back and forth. People who didn't
even really know about AI. We're seeing
anthropic on the front pages of the
paper. They were given a 5:00 pm
deadline to comply. They didn't agree.
Uh the Trump administration accused them
of being traitors, labeled them a tech
the tech a supply chain risk and ordered
federal agencies to stop using
anthropics. So hours later, Open AI
announces a deal with the Department of
War. Was that a mistake?
&gt;&gt; Um I'll separate what what we did and
why from the way that we rolled it out.
Um we had decided not to work with the
government on classified networks. It's
it's not that it's not important. It's
just that Anthropic had gone hard in
that direction. and I think they're, you
know, reasonably safety- minded and
we're doing
good work there and we were busy with
other things. I do think it's very
important that our government and our
military in particular have access to
advanced AI models. I do not think that
they will be able to carry out their
mission for national security without
that. I also think that we talked about
kind of the changes happening to society
earlier. One of the most important
questions the world will have to answer
in the next year is are AI companies or
are governments more powerful? And I
think it's very important that the
governments are more powerful like the
the future of
the world and the decisions about the
most important elements of national
security should be made through a
democratically elected process and the
people that have been appointed as part
of that process. Not me and not the CEO
of some other lab. However, there are
areas where the law hasn't caught up
yet. This is a new technology and it's
going to take some time to legislate it.
And during that time period, I think it
is reasonable for the companies to say,
"Hey, we understand something about this
technology. It is not ready yet for
autonomous weapons. The rules about
protecting against domestic surveillance
were well thought through for a world
without super powerful AI and are not
yet adapted for that. So in areas like
that, I think it's reasonable to say,
"Hey, we just need to go slower on
this," which we did. Like that was part
of our contract as it's written. That is
part of our uh safety stack. Those are
we share the same principles. And I
think Anthropic is right on those
principles. Uh and as I've heard, they
like very nearly got a deal done like
ours with those principles. In my dream
world, they would have just kept working
with the government. I don't think it
works for our industry to say, "Hey,
this is the most powerful technology
humanity has ever built. It is going to
be the higher order bit in geopolitics.
It is going to be the greatest cyber
weapon the world has ever built. It is
going to, you know, be the determinant
of future wars and protection. And we
are not giving it to you. We are not
going to let you have it. You know,
we're going to make a decision. We're
going to make the decisions here." um if
I were the government or if I were, you
know, a citizen voting for
representatives of my government, I
would say like that's really not okay.
And I thought and I still think that had
we not gotten involved with the
government. Um things could have gone
fairly off the rails pretty quickly
where the government was saying like,
you know, they were making DPA threats,
they were making some stronger
statements than that. So we wanted to
say, hey, like we're not going to leave
you. We the industry can't leave the US
government without something here. we
will as long as we can have something
that respects our red lines. I wish we
had announced it very differently. I
think like my goal was to lower the
temperature. It clearly had the opposite
effect. I think I like learned something
about how people feel about the
government, how much people want to tell
like a competitive story in the
industry. So, I'm sure we'll do better
next time. Um, but on the merits of like
the government needs support from US
companies to carry out the mission of
national security and we need to answer
that call. I feel good. Isn't it also
the devil's in the details, right? You
know, if we look at how people feel,
we're in a contentious time. Um, you
know, there's increased domestic
scrutiny over ICE, the war in Iran. So,
what do you say to folks who say, "Okay,
like your red line, but you Sam, like
what exactly like is your red line and
how will you knowing that things can go
ary, knowing that these technologies can
be used in in these ways?" um that you
might not be able to control. What is
your um process for for knowing when
we're too close to the cliff?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And also like can you enforce your red
lines?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean one question that people
say is if the governments nationalize
the AI companies, can you enforce any
red lines at all? And I'll be honest
that at that point probably we you know
like it's you can imagine a world of
that happening where where no we
couldn't anymore. as an independent
company and certainly in our interaction
with the government, they have been
really great about saying, "Hey, you
know, we understand these issues. You
we'll do it contractually. You can build
systems there." Now, again, I don't
know, nor does anybody else know how
weird the next few years are going to
get. I hope the governments don't
nationalize the AI labs. Um,
&gt;&gt; you don't think that's a possibility,
though, do you?
&gt;&gt; I would never say it's not a
possibility. Uh, I don't think it's
&gt;&gt; Have you had conversations about that? I
don't think it's likely, but I like I
will say that if I want if we want that
not to happen, then uh I think we better
find a way to work with the government.
Like if we're not doing it, it would
seem more likely. The
&gt;&gt; I've said before and I still really
believe that in a in a well-run society,
developing AI would have been a
government project.
&gt;&gt; The Manhattan Project was a government
project. The Apollo program was a
government project. Even the Eisenhower
highway system was a government project.
But it doesn't feel like we're in a time
like that anymore. It doesn't feel like
the government could effectively do this
and I think it does need to happen.
&gt;&gt; You know, there's this assumptions that
federal agencies operate within the law,
but history shows that it can be fluid
that surveillance programs exposed by
Edward Snowden essentially, they were
authorized by secret courts and
considered legal at the time, but they
were later ruled unlawful and reform
once they became public. And I think
that's why I go back to your red lines
of a lot of these things sound great in
theory, but when we look at the current
reality of the world that we're living
in, how do you define these red lines
and and what happens if you can't pull
them back?
&gt;&gt; So, two things there. One, that was also
one of my biggest takeaways is there are
a lot of people, I don't know if it's a
representative sample or just the loud
people online, but there is there's at
least a group of loud people online who
really don't trust the government to
follow the law. And that feels like a
very bad sign for our democracy. I
mostly do. I mean, I realize they're not
perfect and some things are going to get
screwed up. And I think we have a system
of checks and balances, but I mostly
trust it. As you said, this is like a
time where people are looking at things
happening and saying, I just, you know,
don't feel bad about it. And maybe this
is I don't feel good about it. And maybe
this is such a uniquely bad time that
like company's patriotic duty is not to
support the not to work with the
government. I totally disagree on that.
Uh I think again given what I see on the
horizon if we don't help the government
with national security and it's not just
wars in the traditional sense if we
don't help them with you know defending
the cyber infrastructure of the US if we
don't help them with the biod defense we
were talking about earlier I think it's
really bad I think we have to work with
the government but the the intensity of
the current mood of mistrust I was
miscalibrated on and I understand
something there now
&gt;&gt; a federal judge um just ordered a
preliminary injunction against
Pentagon's actions on anthropic, calling
the administration's actions what
appears to be a first amendment
retaliation. So I'm curious for your
response on that.
&gt;&gt; We said all the way through that we
thought like publicly, privately, loudly
that we thought the government doing
anything like an STR or a threat of a
DPA against anthropic was really bad. We
were trying to help provide an offramp
there. Um I think that's like a very bad
thing.
&gt;&gt; What would be your message to the folks
at Anthropic and the government on it?
&gt;&gt; Stop the stuff on both. stop the
escalation on both sides and find a way
to work together.
&gt;&gt; I was thinking a lot about our last
conversation uh in 2020 and I was struck
by a story you told me that I you know
it's a kind of a personal story but I
think it's
&gt;&gt; Go for it. You talked about how you were
one of the only openly gay students um
at your high school growing up in
Missouri and how um you essentially gave
a speech in front of
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah.
&gt;&gt; um in front of an assembly um
&gt;&gt; to talk about it to put it out there so
other people would start talking about
it whether they liked you or not. You
said um or whether they you know they
they felt this way or not. And I think
there was something interesting about
this moment and the anger and the and
the interest um because I feel like
you're under the bright lights again and
people are asking you what you stand
for. Um and honestly, if I'm being
&gt;&gt; totally honest as someone who's known
you for 15 years,
&gt;&gt; I want to know the same thing. You know,
this is a moment where things aren't
normal. All these things that tech folks
say of like, okay, we can do this and
this, but we're this playbook is
different.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, this is different. And so what do
you stand for?
&gt;&gt; I think this technology has to be
democratized. I can see a world where
this is either something that is
concentrated from a you know perspective
of wealth but also power over the future
in the hands of a small number of
companies who want to make the decisions
and no matter how much they care about
all of us.
The idea that we would like trade off
our agency and our collective
will over the future to a few companies
doesn't sit right with me. I think we
need to empower people with the
technology, have our governments decide
how society is going to evolve, what the
economic system looks like, and people
need to have this technology. And I
think one of the most important things
that we ever came up with was this idea
of iterative deployment. We're going to
put the technology out in the world
early and often and let people figure
out what works for them and what doesn't
and get a feel for it and society to
decide what should happen. Now, the
criticism of that I'd give is we started
doing that a little over 3 years ago.
Society has not made a lot in the way of
the decisions I was hoping for. Um,
&gt;&gt; but people at least do have a sense for
what's coming. So, that's that that
theme of democratization is a big one.
Um
empowerment I think goes closely along
with that but you we talked about a
bunch of examples where people have been
really empowered with this technology.
Yes, we should all collectively decide
what the guardrails should be and we
should you know have democratic
governments continue to have a lot of
power and we should strengthen democracy
where we can. We should also and I think
this is like a deeply held American
value that has worked very well. We
should really empower individual people,
you know, like we should set some broad
rules and then let people go figure out
how to cure cancer for their dog or
figure out how to make a oneperson
startup or figure out how to set up open
claw to like automate something amazing
in their life. And this is uncomfortable
for people because
individuals are going to have so much
power. But I think the democratization
and empowerment pieces are linked
importantly. Um, abundance is something
that I care a lot about. If I look at my
career and the stuff I've been
interested in and kind of what I believe
about what it takes to have a better
world, and I could pick only one word, I
pick abundance. Uh, I think you want to
just create huge amounts of resources,
opportunity, the ability for people to
have like an amazing life and to sort of
express it in all kinds of in all kinds
of different ways. And that's AI. it's
energy. It'll be things like robots in
the future. It's certainly making sure
that we build enough compute to make all
of this happen. Um, but that's a place
that I like really want to drive
towards. Safety has evolved and or been
added to, but that's another thing that
I like the the trade-off of all of this
individual empowerment uh is that one
person could do a great deal of harm.
And so building up guardrails in the
world to prevent that and where we can
feel okay about this um is critical. I
named a bunch of principles. There's
more I'd like to name. You know, like
fairly sharing all of the upside and the
voice and the agency and the decision-m
of this technology is that one seems
like one that would be very difficult to
ever change my mind on.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. But other things like maybe the
trade-off between safety and agency.
There will be periods where we have to
say ah this technology went in a
different way than we thought. We really
love empowering people but not at the
risk of destroying the whole world. So
we're going to have to do something
differently for a while. So we will
wrestle with these principles all the
time and we I would say with some
certainty we'll have to make changes as
the technology progresses. Uh and I
don't think people like hearing that but
it is the truth.
&gt;&gt; Um man named Bosi runs the McGovern
Institute. um he asked a question and I
think it's an important question because
to be a founder now is really different
than it was back when we started talking
of talking about this when it felt a
little more anti-establishment and
chaotic. Now there's kind of like a
different playbook and so he had a
question about how you navigate it.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Many of us became founders or
builders because we wanted to make
something useful. used to be about a
fanatic focus on the product, building
something great and getting it into
people's hands. But the job of a founder
seems to have fundamentally changed over
the last few years. Now, especially in
AI, being a founder might mean having to
raise sovereign capital or stand next to
heads of state at a public meeting or
endorse political statements. It might
mean making decisions that reshape labor
markets and affect billions of lives.
They're the decisions that used to be
the domain of governments and required a
very different kind of preparation than
building a product. So Sam, as a
quintessential founder, I'm curious, is
this what it means to be a founder now?
And if so, who are founders accountable
to when they're making those kinds of
decisions? How are we preparing them to
hold that responsibility?
&gt;&gt; I don't think that's what it means for
most founders. I think, you know, if
you're one of these one person or small
team companies building with AI, it it
feels the closest to that 2010 period we
were talking about that it's ever felt
since then.
&gt;&gt; My own experience uh unfortunately does
feel more like a politician.
&gt;&gt; In what sense?
&gt;&gt; I have to do those things. desire to go
like negotiate deals with governments
and fly around and you know talk to war
leaders and
work on these deals for land and power
for data center expansion that are kind
of the kind of deals governments used to
do. Um it's not my natural environment.
&gt;&gt; Say more
&gt;&gt; you what you were saying earlier like I
I like my whole life has been around
kind of the garage version of founders.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I' I've worn a lot more suits in
the last couple of years than I've worn
in my whole life put together before.
&gt;&gt; And and it also feels like the stakes
are are much higher. You're in very
different rooms than you used to. What
have you learned about that? Like has it
been an easy process to to kind of to to
lean into that?
&gt;&gt; No, no, no, no, not at all. Uh this
sounds obvious, but the difference in
skills and temperament and worldview
between the average politician and the
average founder, I kind of knew they
were crazy different. they're crazier or
different than I could have ever
imagined. A lesson I feel like I've
learned repeatedly in life at higher and
higher levels of power and status and
whatever is that everyone thinks I
always have thought there's like some
adult in the room. You always get to
some final boss. There's someone with a
plan. There's someone who knows exactly
what they're doing. And the leaders of
the world are also, you know, uncertain
and insecure and trying their best but
don't have the answers and like maybe
this, maybe that. kind of going to make
a call while I'm tired either way.
&gt;&gt; Doing kind of a hard pivot to something
I think we both care about, but I think
is probably like the most high stakes
thing I could think of. Um, is being a
parent in this era of AI. Um, we're both
raising young boys. Um, and I think I
said this to you before, like we're both
raising young boys, but in a sense,
you're raising my son, too. Like the
technology that you build will be
integrated into every facet of of my son
Charlie's. I hope you don't let him use
it yet.
&gt;&gt; I am absolutely not letting him use it.
When are you letting your son use it?
&gt;&gt; Not for a while.
&gt;&gt; Do you have an idea?
&gt;&gt; You know, people ask me all the time
like, "Oh, now that you have a kid or
going to have more kids, like do do you
feel more responsibility about how you
don't destroy the world with AI?"
&gt;&gt; Do you?
&gt;&gt; No. Like my highest order bit is to not
destroy the world with AI. Like
&gt;&gt; doesn't matter how good everything else
is if we do that. Um, so I knew I was
going to have kids. I and I knew that I
thought a lot about what I would feel
about the world my future kids would
grow up in. And you know that I I used
to write my kid a letter every night.
The lawyers eventually convince me to
stop. But it was a nice thing to do
about just cuz I when I would like put
him to bed, I would just sort of I get
home late like right before his bedtime
and I', you know, be rocking him and he
just needs something to talk to your kid
about. So I would tell him about my day
and what was going on and you know I I
was like obviously a 5-month old
fourmonth old baby is not going to
understand these things. So, I was like,
you know what, I'll write them down.
I'll give them to him later because it
was sort of an interesting time. Um, but
an interesting thing about writing those
letters would be like you can't really
hide anything like you will be the most
honest version of yourself and the
decisions you're making in the thing you
write to your kid. So, I really loved
doing it. It was like my every Sunday
night ritual about like here was the
hard stuff that came this week and
here's why I decided and why and you
know here's what I'm worried about. But
the like the mindset of writing that to
your kid to read in
&gt;&gt; Yeah. you know, 15 or 20 years. Very
interesting. Um, but no, on the like not
destroy the world with AI, always very
set on that. A thing that has changed
hugely is how I feel about um
algorithmic feeds and iPads in small
children's hands and stuff like that.
And when I watch kids just a little bit
older than mine that you cannot take the
iPad away from watching this sort of
like short, you know, watching like
whatever they're watching. Uh that I
feel very strongly about. So I don't
know when I would let him talk to AI,
but I'd rather be on the late end of
what's reasonable there, not the early
end. Of course, I think it's like great
and it'll he'll grow up in a world where
computers are smarter than him and do
anything he wants, but uh you know, I
wanted to like play in the dirt for now.
&gt;&gt; Well, I mean, what's interesting is you
talk about these algorithmic worlds. I
think a lot about this as a mom, too.
Like, there's this frustration where
it's like, oh, these tech guys, they're
just going to create all this stuff and
then send their their children to school
with like no iPads, right? And so, I
think about like I I think about AI and
how powerful this product is. I mean, it
is highly personalized. It's always on.
It's always there. You have people who
are becoming increasingly delusional by
talking to AI all day. We've have issues
of AI psychosis, people ending their
lives because of AI companions. I I'm
curious like you don't want AI to become
the next social media. That that is
terrifying. But we're in a world where
that could be a possibility without the
correct guard rails.
Just as we learn more about the
relationship people are going to have
with AI, we should make it easy for them
to succeed. We should make it easy for
them to have a healthy relationship and
then give adults a lot of freedom. But
kids, teenagers, I think they will need
a lot of guardrails around AI. This is
this is such a powerful and such a new
thing. Um, you mentioned like sending
how we're going to send our kids to
school. There is a version of the future
here that I'm very excited about. these
new schools are popping up where you
have, you know, like maybe a couple of
hours a day of intense personalized
one-on-one tutoring with AI and then you
kind of explore project based and the
school sets up whatever you want to work
on. That seems great. That's the kind of
thing where I'm like, I can totally
imagine that. But
you can also mention a lot of worlds
where it goes wrong.
&gt;&gt; And what world do you see AI being a
very a huge value ad to the way our
children grow up?
&gt;&gt; So, I think there's like two stories you
can tell about AI and education right
now. One is you can say everybody's
using it to cheat. They're not really
using to learn. They're and you know
schools are making their kids like write
essays by hand because they have not
been able to figure out what how to
teach a curriculum where people can use
AI.
And the other is you can say well the
world has been through transitions like
this before. We've freaked out about
calculators. We've freaked out about
Google. We freaked out about computers.
And it takes a little while. It's only
been three years. But we do figure out
how to teach people to think and achieve
at a higher level and to work with the
tools that they will have as an adult in
society. And you know, I definitely meet
kids and teachers who are like, "Okay,
fine. I can't teach people. I can't like
evaluate an essay as well anymore." And
I think the kids aren't learning to
write in the same way. But probably
adults won't write essays in the same
way in the future either. And what
really matters is do you teach the
students to think and create and figure
out, you know, stretch their brain and
come up with like explore ideas. And
then I see what some people are doing
where like students are building entire
new complex pieces of software and
worlds and you know figuring out very
difficult new ideas much more difficult
to figure out than anything I had to
figure out in school. And I assume my
kids when they finish high school will
be like wildly smarter and more capable
&gt;&gt; and have like developed their brain much
more than I did.
&gt;&gt; I can't stop thinking as a mom about
this idea of friction, right? Um
like this is a weird thing to say to a
tech person, but like humanity is messy.
Like vulnerability is weird. Intimacy is
awkward.
It's all a mess. But it's in that mess
that we find purpose and we build
strength. and AI systems we now interact
with are so incredible in so many ways
and they are a frictionless experience.
And so I wonder thinking about my son
growing up like
will there be shortcuts and and if we're
not careful will there not be the
friction for him to develop into the
person that he could be? Ali and I talk
about this a lot. Uh like h like
&gt;&gt; Ollie's your husband.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I would maybe call it adversity,
not friction. Uh but maybe friction is a
better word.
&gt;&gt; Adversity to one person, friction to the
other.
&gt;&gt; Um but like so much of what I think I
learned was in the messiness, in the
difficulty, actually even in the
boredom. Like you and I were kind of the
last generation of kids that grew up
bored.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, and at the time I hated it.
Looking back, I think it was like super
valuable in all of these strange ways.
&gt;&gt; I grew up in the suburbs hanging out at
mall parking lots like that. Looking
back on it, I'm like, "God help me." But
&gt;&gt; no phones. We didn't have we just, you
know,
&gt;&gt; no phones, but there was a certain not
to be nostalgic with the person leading
the tech revolution of AI, but like
there was a magic to that that I also
think made me who I am.
&gt;&gt; Totally. Um, so I don't want to like
hang on to the past too much, but I do
want to find out like figure out
how we don't throw out the good parts of
of that and and what it's going to take
to create an environment for kids to
grow up in that still has some of that.
I think it my intuition is it's very
important.
&gt;&gt; I want to um play a little sound from
Dr. Becky. Do you know who Dr. Becky is?
Okay. Well, Dr. Becky said something on
this. I just interviewed her like last
week and she had a thought on this.
&gt;&gt; If I know one thing about tween and
teens growing up in an AI age, they're
going to have a lot of tricky
situations, a lot of messy situations. I
said to my kid recently, my 14-year-old,
you know, if you were walking to a town
and you wanted to get there and all of a
sudden there's a shortcut, would you
take it? He was like, yeah, is this a
trick question? I was like, yeah, I
would too. Good. Okay.
You're growing up at a time when there
is this shortcut for every academic and
emotional thing you will ever go
through. Like that is so hard because
this shortcut isn't like the shortcut to
the town. It is a shortcut. But the way
it will add up over time is it and
things we've talked about it's going to
be harder to think about things
yourself. It's going to be harder to
tolerate people not getting it right.
It's going to over time maybe take away
from the things you're trying to build
to function in the world. But it is a
shortcut. I'm not going to pretend it's
not. And so what a hard thing.
&gt;&gt; I don't agree with that.
I mean, I agree with the worry, but the
reason I don't think that's what's going
to happen, if you were a kid from 2030
and you only had to compete with kids
from 2020,
yeah, you would take the shortcut and
you would do great and you would never
really learn to think or struggle and
you would just hugely outperform them.
But the world we live in is a
competitive world. And I don't think
that's going to stop. Even if you did a
lot of redistribution, you know, people,
we have a deep desire to excel and be
competitive and gain status and be
useful to others. And it's a multiplayer
game. And all of the other kids from
2030 are going to have the same tools.
And it will push us. Like the tools will
raise what we can do, but also they will
raise expectations even more.
&gt;&gt; Okay. I take your multiplayer game and I
go back to I know we don't want to keep
going back but I go back to my
childhood. I didn't have I would say
sometimes the happiest like my parents
got divorced when I was like I think I
was like 11 or something and I just
remember I had this journal similar to
how you talk about writing to your son.
I had this journal that I would write. I
you know paint the picture. I'm kind of
a I'm you know Jewish girl at a largely
Christian conservative school growing
up. parents getting divorced, all sorts
of stuff happening that I think are, you
know, not unique to to the teenage
experience. And I wrote so much of it in
my journal. And I thought a lot about
this because I did a story on character
AI in a chatbot that um that was
incredibly unhealthy in an emotional way
for a 14-year-old that was interacting
with it and didn't have the correct
guard rails. And I think about my
journal. What if my journal talked back?
What if it was a therapist I didn't have
at the time? What if it was the guy that
wouldn't look at me in school, right?
What if it was the parental figure?
Would that have helped me? Would that
have been a level up in the game of the
multiplayer game that we talk about? Or
would that have taken me further away
from my reality and the the hardships
that I think gave me a certain amount of
empathy that allows me to enable to to
do what I do in my career and live the
life I I have. And and would it have
made me more isolated and more lonely? I
don't know the answer, but I I worry
that it could have it could have taken
away the special sauce of messiness and
adversity as you and Olly like to talk
about that makes me human. And and so I
I just wonder as someone who wants to
democratize artificial intelligence and
who thinks a lot about these things, how
do you make sure that you don't
democratize a shortcut that sacrifices
the things in us that are especially
human? I'm happy not to have to be a
teenager again, but I do remember the
the difficulty and the pain. Um I
and I also remember just the absolute
self-centeredness
and how I thought like my struggles and
life and was the only thing that
mattered in the world, you know,
&gt;&gt; and if I had and also how I kind of only
cared about my peers and whatever thing
was happening to me. And I don't think
there's any, you know, I loved video
games and would could spend a lot of
time playing them, but I don't think
there's anything on a computer that
could have kept me from caring about my
peers in the world and, you know, like
the sort of normal teenage experience. I
think it would have helped me if I could
write to something that would talk back.
Uh, but I don't think it would have been
that's there's a lot of things I do
worry about for people who are going to
grow up with this technology. That one
seems like should be should be pretty
positive to me.
&gt;&gt; I think with the correct guardrails.
Yes. if it's talking back
&gt;&gt; um and and you know and not being so
affirmative that it just goes because if
you think that's intoxicating if you're
a young person or any personally and you
have a very powerful technology that's
speaking back to you that's that's goes
where you want it to go that sees you
like think about
&gt;&gt; AI models are incredibly dangerous but
AI models that are kind of like
thoughtful
caring
listeners that will push back as
necessary. Uh I think that can be a
great thing
&gt;&gt; and but that's in the product right
that's not our fault on the outside
right like that's in the product of how
these things are built. So take me into
open AI into these
&gt;&gt; conversations behind the scenes of you
know there are these dials and you get
to push them. I remember when chatbt
when uh when the model was discontinued
it was really you know
&gt;&gt; it was really affirmative. There were
people online that were almost treating
it like it was a death. That is a
powerful signal to someone like you.
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. I think that points to not
just the danger of a model that is too
affirmative,
but also how I mean there were these
really heartbreaking messages people
would send when we take stopping for
which is hey this is the only thing in
my life that has ever been a positive
voice. You know,
&gt;&gt; what do you think when you get those
messages?
&gt;&gt; I mean, it's heartbreaking obviously and
you really feel the the the weight of
getting this right where it's easy to
say, hey, we don't want a model that's
too affirmative because it can make, you
know, it could like it can have negative
mental effects on people. But then you
hear somebody else say like, actually, I
never had any confidence. I had parents
who told me I was terrible. I, you know,
didn't have any friends in school. And
because I've had this model, sure, maybe
it's like a little too positive, but
it's given me the confidence. and I've
like gone out and got a job and found a
girlfriend and like this has been the
most important thing in my life and I'm
doing great but don't take it away.
&gt;&gt; So it's like
&gt;&gt; it's almost this fine line because there
are all of these stories and it's like
push this far and it can help you get
offline, push this far and you begin to
to lose that capacity for other humans.
And I think that's a really interesting
moment. I think this is probably one of
the most important questions that we
have to ask our tech leaders as they
build out the future that our children
will grow up in. What have you decided
not to do? I mean the specific thing we
decided not to do is although we think
the models have
extreme power to be a positive force in
people's lives we don't know how to
balance a model that can be pushed too
far in that direction
with the concerns of I mean I think you
said is like kind of pushing people into
a psychotic episode and so we've made a
decision which is we know we're keeping
something and and I'm not saying we
shouldn't have war models of Of course
we should, but there are a lot of people
who would like 40 back and we've decided
when looking at the the full balance of
upsides and risks, we we can't quite
offer that responsibly. Um,
there are a lot of people who would like
us to have less restrictions on what our
models can do from a bio perspective.
Probably more people could, you know,
save their dogs lives with custom mRNA
vaccines if we made that a little easier
and turned up the power on the model
there. that would come with a big risk
on novel pandemics that we've decided is
not worth the trade-off. Now, eventually
I think these decisions will be made by
society. You know, it's like not up to
the seal of a company that makes
airplanes what the safety regulations
are. But for now, we kind of got to do
it.
&gt;&gt; We've obviously talked a lot about the
fears, but there is so much excitement
about what this technology can do. Um,
OpenAI has a foundation that's focused
on humanity's biggest problems. Where do
you see this being good for for humans
in a very specific way?
&gt;&gt; My most exciting meeting of of last week
was with a physicist who's using one of
our latest internal systems. He said,
you know, my mind has been completely
blown. I didn't think this would ever
happen. We are going to make decades
worth of physics of theoretical physics
progress in the next couple of years.
And you know, some people will say,
okay, who cares? You can write a better
equation. But I am a believer that
scientific progress is one of the most
maybe the most important thing we can do
to make the world better and better.
Obviously, we can do things like develop
new cures for diseases, but there's so
much more material science, new ways to
produce clean and cheap energy, abundant
energy, um that if we are really on the
precipice of being able to use AI to
dramatically accelerate science, then I
think we can solve some of the biggest
problems in the world. And we now have
one of the most maybe the most wellunded
foundation in the world and the ability
to use that amount of capital with the
technology to go create a bunch of new
scientific understanding for the world.
I hope that'll be one of our greatest
contributions ever.
&gt;&gt; A big moment happened recently which is
a California jury found that Meta and
Google um were liable in damages for
harmful and addictive platforms. It's
the first time that uh the social media
has been treated as a defective product
from a design perspective. I'm curious
what the outcome of this case means for
AI companies like OpenAI.
&gt;&gt; I mean, I think society is going to
decide that creators of AI products bear
a tremendous amount of responsibility to
the products we put out in the world,
but I kind of thought that before this
case and I haven't reviewed this enough
to say if there's like a specific thing
that will apply to us.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think so much of the fear
around AI and who has the power is based
in a grounded and you know people
worried that their jobs might not exist,
their livelihood might not exist. I'd
love to play um a question from uh a mom
uh who lives in Rhode Island. A big part
of this show and what I want to do is be
able to give people like that access to
people like you to ask real questions.
So I want to play that.
Hi, I'm the mom of two middle schoolers
in Rhode Island. And my kids are kind of
coming around to the idea of having a
backup plan for their careers. Um, you
know, as most kids, they have
aspirational careers of being
professional sports players and, you
know, fighter jet pilots. And we've been
chatting about other options for
careers. And I'm curious to see what
careers you might recommend that would
be AI proof. My husband and I have been
talking a lot about skilled trades. How,
you know, as a homeowner, it's difficult
to find skilled trades people to come
and help you out with electrical
problems with heating and cooling
options. Maybe that's a great path for
kids these days. and more traditional
like great career paths in engineering
might take a backseat to these skilled
trades. Obviously, kids will do what you
know they gravitate toward and we
encourage that. But if you have thoughts
on AI proof careers, I'd be interested
to hear them. Thanks so much.
One thing I will point out though in
terms of things that I think are truly
AI proof is I don't think anyone cares
about the AI version of Lorie Seagull. I
don't think anyone wants to watch an AI
come interview people like me. We are
obsessed with other people. I don't
think anyone care. You know, she talked
about her kids want to be uh sports
stars and fighter jet pilots. Maybe
fighter jet pilots society is happy to
say like, "Yeah, put the AI in there.
That's, you know, safer and better."
Okay, the
sports stars. Are we really going to
watch like 11 robots play sports against
each other? Some people will.
&gt;&gt; I mean, a lot of that stuff goes viral.
I saw like a robot falling dancing. It
has novelty, but like, are we going to
get caught up in a sports league of just
robots without the personal interest?
&gt;&gt; Are we going to read AI written novels
and not have an author that we could
like understand their life story went
into that? I would bet there's a huge
cluster of people care about people and
in the future people will care even more
about people but like this is so deep in
evolutionary biology that those things
are like all quite AI proof. Um,
someone said to me recently, I thought
it was at the time it seemed not that
profound, more insightful the more I
thought about it. In a world with true
abundance, there is still one limited
thing which is human attention
and
we care a lot about human attention. So,
there's a whole category of stuff
there's on the specifics. I'd go into it
if we had more time, but like yes,
clearly there will be a lot a huge
amount of short-term demand for
electricians and skilled trades people
eventually. I think the robots will do
some of those things, but uh you know,
all of these things are just sort of
like periods of of time. If you just
look at how much jobs have shifted every
last decade that that will keep going.
&gt;&gt; You talk about human attention and so
much of the last decade of tech was kind
of like really a business model that
prayed on human attention. I'm curious
how you think about the lessons of the
last decade because now you're a
for-profit company. Um, and there is
this idea that eyeballs on screen, more
people using the product go is what you
know is is what makes the company
successful. How do you not fall into the
same business model trap that I would
say the last decade did?
&gt;&gt; We we decided to just totally shut down
Sora. We were thinking about other
versions of keeping it before the
computer crunch came like we were
talking about putting it into the chatbt
app really focusing on generation and
creativity. But one thing that we had
realized is that to
succeed with it as a the product was
currently conceptualized and sort of
this way you could watch a lot of videos
that would have put a series of
incentives on us and would have led to a
bunch of decisions to win that we just
didn't want to make. So, there was some
version of that and there still is some
version of letting people generate video
that I think is awesome to compete in
short-term video feeds and where that's
going to go in a world of AI was not
something I wanted to have to go do.
&gt;&gt; Right. It's a it's an interesting
decision of what you don't do like and
and what that business model could
demand.
&gt;&gt; Um, and there can be other versions of
like this with chat like we could make a
version of chat GBT that was very
addicting to talk to and that would have
a bunch of complications too. Um, I want
to play uh another uh another voice memo
from a guy named Joseph.
&gt;&gt; The clips are a fun little
&gt;&gt; I know. Let's play Joseph.
&gt;&gt; Hey, my name is Joseph. I'm a recent
college grad um trying to work in film
in New York City and I have a couple
questions for you. Um number one, what
do you dream about? Do you ever have uh
recurring nightmares about AI? Do you
often have have dreams about AI? Number
two, um if if you were in my shoes as
like a young person trying to find
themselves um in a career or just trying
to like live in this world, what what do
you think is important to read and learn
about right now and what skills are most
useful? And then finally, um what
specific social causes do you care
about?
&gt;&gt; Thank you so much.
&gt;&gt; It's a lot of them, so you can pick a
couple. Pick your favorite one. Thanks,
Joseph.
&gt;&gt; I can do them all fast. Um, when I until
my like early 30s, I had this recurring
kind of bad dream of
the right when I dropped out of college
to start a my company. Um,
I would I would be in that period, but I
was like always I was in my dream. I was
still in school and I was always missing
something and I was always like, you
know, late for an exam or forgot about a
class. And this went on till like deep
into open AAI time and by far the most
frequent dream of my life. And I it was
so vivid. It was a little different
every time, but it was like a kind of a
crazy most intense
&gt;&gt; dream. So I don't know what to make of
that. Uh what I would study, I think the
answer is just get really good at using
AI tools more than any specific thing to
study. And then the kind of skills that
I expect to matter in the future and I
think these are learnable like
resilience adaptability kind of like
calmness uh being comfortable with a lot
of change social causes uh I am very
interested in this question of what the
new version of the social contract looks
like you know I don't think it's enough
to say hey this jobs transition is going
to be really hard but there's going to
be a great time on the other side I
think we can say that and then we have
to say and here is our proposal for like
a new tax system and a new way to think
about collect collective ownership. That
makes sense.
&gt;&gt; What would you propose?
&gt;&gt; I am interested in
ideas where everybody is an owner in the
magic of capitalism. I think that the
thing that happened with these new Trump
accounts for kids, uh, that direction of
stuff I really like. So, a world where
like we kind of preserve as much of
what's worked about capitalism
of the last couple of centuries as we
can, but we say, "Hey, everybody just by
virtue of being a citizen is going to
own some and we're going to have like a
a tax system that enables that." I feel
very excited about that. I think as long
as people can like afford a good life
and the price of admission, they will
outperform expectations. being in front
of you and and and having spent so much
time over the last four years, we
discovered there was this site on the
internet, right, where um a man who was
anonymous for seven seven years prior
had created hyperrealistic sexually
explicit deep fakes of women using
artificial intelligence. It was um it
was horrific looking at like deep fake
porn and the way that these impacted
women um and so much of that I think you
know when we look at agency and control
I've talked to so many women and and
it's not just women all sorts of victims
who are are victims of deep fake
pornography and they felt like they lost
their sense of agency they had no
control they went to the laws hadn't
caught up so they went to the police
they said we don't even know what you're
talking about um I had a woman talk
about wanting to end her life and so the
human impact of this is so incredibly
visceral
&gt;&gt; and I think about this through the lens
of like well whose job is this right you
know and and granted I say this with a
caveat that OpenAI has gotten in front
of a lot of this stuff we're not seeing
a lot of these were open source models
but I think that you're an important
voice to be able to weigh in on this
type of thing
&gt;&gt; I mean that one seems like such a that's
not a hard decision to make right like
that's so clear that we're not going to
allow our models to be used for that um
open source models yes people are going
use a lot of that. Uh
I would kind of go back to the
principles that I outlined
earlier. You can you can say a lot of
bad things about the republic, but I
think it has done a good job of
representing
the will of the citizens and protecting
against the tyranny of the majority in
that process. Uh I think the
constitution remains one of the most
amazing governing docks the world has
ever produced and I believe in it as a
government governance system. So like
with other technologies that have
changed the world.
I hope that is our
systems, our governments figure out how
to run the process to decide how to make
these trade-offs about say freedom and
protection and what's in the best
interest of society. Now, what I think
you might say and I would agree with is
maybe that worked really well in a
different time. Our leaders didn't do a
great job with the internet or with
social media or whatever. And that is
fair, which is part of why we've been
trying to talk about this more and
earlier. Um,
&gt;&gt; but if I could say specifically, so much
so many of the folks victims I've talked
to finally had recourse when there were
state laws. You know, there had yet to
be a federal law. It takes the it takes
a long time. Um, I know OpenAI has
looked at supported curbing state
legislation in the name of innovation
and we have to move fast. So, I I'm
curious if you can explain.
&gt;&gt; This may be one we disagree on. I I
don't I don't think state legislation
will be helpful here. I would much
rather see the system urgently try to
get a federal framework right now. Maybe
we try that for a couple of years and we
can't and we say, "Hey, it's just taking
too long and you know, we need
something." But like I don't think I
think we need one stance on this. I mean
really there's an even trickier thing
which I think we need a global stance on
a lot of this. A lot of these things are
going to affect the whole world. We've
talked about things like bioteterror but
certainly what happens in one state will
affect a lot of other states.
&gt;&gt; But in theory but in reality sometimes
the change happens quicker at the state
level.
&gt;&gt; I think even if it does it doesn't mean
that that will have the impact on the
industry or the technology you would
hope for. You know, if we take an area
like social where I think we'd both
agree the government didn't really do
their job, public pressure did a lot.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And the companies, you know, I think
like most people that work at these
companies probably want to do the right
thing, too. And the companies, not every
decision I would have made the same way,
but I think they made a lot of good
ones. Uh, so it's not like we only have
governments to rely on here.
&gt;&gt; I want to do a quick lightning round.
What will be the most valuable human
skill set that's AI proof?
&gt;&gt; Caring about other people. Open AI's
biggest opportunity and biggest missed
opportunity.
&gt;&gt; Biggest opportunity in front of us is
this sort of cluster of automating
researchers and companies and the super
personal assistant for people's life. Um
biggest missed opportunity is we passed
on a comput deal once we shouldn't have
passed on like a big one
&gt;&gt; like what
&gt;&gt; I can't say exactly what but there was
like a very large comput deal we could
have taken.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Um how likely is OpenAI to acquire
an entertainment company? not not a top
consideration right now.
&gt;&gt; How likely is Open AI to go public this
year?
&gt;&gt; Could happen. Not Yeah, I don't know.
&gt;&gt; How likely is it that you could one day
be replaced um as CEO by an AI
&gt;&gt; on the on the skills of my job? Very
likely on the will the world want a
human responsible for the decisions of a
company like OpenAI? I think the world
will demand that.
&gt;&gt; Do you say please and thank you to Chad
GPT?
&gt;&gt; I do.
&gt;&gt; Why?
&gt;&gt; Force of habit. Not because you're
expecting if it all goes bad, you want
to be like on the other side. No.
&gt;&gt; Okay, got it. Um, last time you spoke to
Elon Musk and what was the conversation?
&gt;&gt; It was a while and it was just some
emojis back and forth.
&gt;&gt; Um, okay. Hey, have you speak Have you
seen the fruit AI videos online?
&gt;&gt; No.
&gt;&gt; Oh, they represent AI slop at its at its
finest. Um, when will we see AI
wearables mainstream?
&gt;&gt; Two to four years.
There's the reason I give such a broad
range is
right now if you're talking to someone
that's got like a forward- facing camera
on their glasses, it's incredibly
off-putting.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um maybe that gets more comfortable
quickly or maybe we just figure out a
very different kind of wearable.
&gt;&gt; Do you can you give any sense of how you
believe that will look? Is it like a pin
people are wearing?
&gt;&gt; Pin doesn't feel quite right to me. Um I
mean I hope it like more as a general
thing, not just about wearables. I hope
that the whole concept of products in
the age of AI fade into the background.
Like the ideal AI assistant I want.
There's almost no product at all. It's
an extremely smart model that's got full
access to all the context in my life
that I can just trust. I can say one
thing to and it's going to happen. It'll
be proactive with me only exactly when I
want. And so when you think about like
software products in that sense and also
wearables, they could be quite subtle or
quite restrained.
&gt;&gt; Interesting. Um the craziest thing
coming down the pipeline when it comes
to innovation that you don't think we're
talking enough about
&gt;&gt; uh probably automated researchers like I
know we're talking about some but like
if we talked about if we wait we waited
every conversation in this room relative
to its that we had today relative to its
importance of the future we probably
would have talked way more about re
automating research and way less about
everything else
&gt;&gt; you're saying one of the most important
conversations we're not having is about
automated research like what what does
that mean for humanity
&gt;&gt; you know like 10 years of the whole
world scientific progress in one year
and then a hundred years of progress in
one year. The transformation that will
have to quality of life, to the economy,
to new risks. Like this is just there's
no analog for this.
&gt;&gt; Do you think that's a possibility?
&gt;&gt; I think it's a possibility. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; What has to happen for it to to happen?
&gt;&gt; The models need to get smarter. We need
to eventually we need to figure out how
to connect physical labs to them, things
like that.
&gt;&gt; I want to play one thing you said and
then we'll we'll wrap up.
&gt;&gt; I'm excited for this. What do you think
is the single most important ethical
question we need to ask ourselves when
it comes to the future of like us tech
and humans
&gt;&gt; in a world where we're going to have
computers that can think like humans?
What is the society we want to design?
This question of what do we want the
role of humans to be in the world and
how do we make sure the world is good
for humans in the broadest sense. Uh, I
think that is the biggest ethical
question of our lifetime.
&gt;&gt; Do you agree with that?
&gt;&gt; I have nothing to add or change to that.
&gt;&gt; How do you think we're doing on
answering that question?
&gt;&gt; Better than I
much better than I feared we would be
doing. Uh, you know, obviously not as
well as I hoped, but I'm always like a
little too optimistic.
&gt;&gt; [music]
