原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJKjDtehiTo

Is there um examples of the strongest
engineers you worked with and you what
made them strong at Netflix?
&gt;&gt; I'm simply gonna say the absolute best
engineer, strongest engineer I've ever
worked with is Giannis Katzanetis. I'm
generally going to try to avoid names,
but I I got to put him out. I met him in
2000 in her video. I brought him in. He
was he left the industry and was working
as a professor in Greece teaching signal
processing. And I brought him in during
the summer break to to help. I was
working on this was in 2010. I was
working on some ideas around parallel
encoding. Uh and the the work we did
gave birth to contentbased encoding
which is now how the entire industry is
working. The the we wrote an early
patent on that. He went back to school
but we convinced him to join us at
Netflix a couple years later. He took
that one level further to to um to what
to now the model for encoding for both
Meta and Netflix which is called convex
all encoding which is actually
mathematically delivering the highest
possible quality for a given bandwidth
capability. Um and
he and I work together at innerv video
Netflix and meta. He's an engineers
engineer and one of the most in
brilliant people I've ever known. He
actually developed a model for the co
basically for codec evaluation that's a
costbenefit model. for this amount of
energy you get this amount of codec
efficiency
and and which is revolutionary because
he's very much academic and you you know
and you know you've always heard the
joke in theory theory and practice are
the same in practice they're very
different so his brilliance I think was
really bringing this academic world and
forcing it into the practical world
where we can actually make decisions
based on not what some hypothetical you
know you know two videos you compress
can do. But actually, you know what
happens when we run this test against
10,000 videos or a million videos or a
billion videos.
&gt;&gt; You've mentioned meta a lot at this
point. Maybe we should go to that. Um
I'm kind of curious what's the story
behind you uh getting recruited to Meta
or working at Meta.
&gt;&gt; Sure. So um as I mentioned earlier the
Netflix culture deck the early one said
that we really should interview often so
we understand our market value right and
I had an outreach from Meta and I don't
remember who it was um but
it was like 2018
I think 2017 late 2017 I think it was
late 2017
and I told my wife I said yeah you know
Facebook it was fa Facebook at the time
Facebook wants to interview me I said I
I don't want to work there, but I
haven't interviewed in like 12 years. I
I think I need to interview or 10 years,
whatever. So, I went and interviewed
and I I kind of went over I I will say
honestly a bit full of myself cuz like
you would hear me, we built Netflix, we
built the highest scale in coding
platform in the world, whatever. And and
I got to the interviews and I was um
whiteboarding everything out. I remember
one guy these were good interviews but
this one guy stop said David you have to
understand Facebook cannot solve their
video scale problem with CPUs
and I just I walked away and I emailed
him back later I was like you floored me
right I never realized and and so I I I
turn eventually I got an offer and I I
turned it down I just wasn't ready at
the time um but I had I had reached out
to this guy and I just told him you know
I thank Thank you for like you know
letting me know that I was very narrow
in how I understood the world of video
because I had no concept and I want to
talk about this about Facebook's meta
scale in a little bit. I had no
understanding or concept. Um shortly
after that Giannis who was in Netflix
pulled me aside and said hey I got this
offer from Facebook and we sat and
talked about it. He was talking about
the ASIC. He was talking about all these
things he was going to work on and I
I saw a passion in him that I hadn't
seen in a little while and and he had
done some really good work at Netflix
but I don't think that the culture again
is not built around individual
contributions. I don't think he ever you
know was getting the joy and I think the
reward and recognition. Remember
recognition is not for an engineer is
not your name in lights.
Sometimes it could be as simple as like
a senior executive saying, "Hey, this is
really good work this person did." And
I'm not saying they didn't do that at
Netflix. I'm just saying it like
we'll talk about this. Met Meta is very
intentional about individual credit. So,
and I think he felt like the problems
weren't big enough for him and he was he
just had this look and I was like, "Wow,
this is amazing." You know, he's like,
"Aren't you going to try to talk me out
of it?" I was like, "Yes, you're my
friend, right? Isn't I, as an employer,
as your boss, I don't want to lose you,
but as your friend, I'm like, how can
you say no? And I'm not even going to
try because, you know, because I care
about and I I just I wish I could tell
you going there would be the wrong
decision." And
so through that process, I started with
a company. I was only interviewing just
to work on my, you know, interview
muscle. And in the end,
I was just looking across the aisle and
thinking, man, that's freaking hard
problem. And I had a good solid team
doing well. I had a leader lined up
ready to take my place. And just the way
things kind of worked out in in in 2019.
Um, I ended up leaving Netflix and word
got out and Facebook reached out to me
very quickly. I had to rein because the
gap had been too long, but I got a job
offer and and I took it. I was excited
and I came
