原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dbJN0nvIqLg

AI is just changing what's possible in a
lot of ways. I'm very optimistic about
it. A lot of people have a lot of fear
around it. Like how how do they
intersect? How is AI impacting small
business? What what does it mean for for
them and for what you're doing?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um I I'll preface it by by this is
a hard business to build and and not
every investor was interested in until
about a year ago. And so we're lucky to
have met uh allies like you who who took
a bet on us early. I would say right now
we're at a very interesting thing where
we're the perfect AI hedge, but we also
have a ton of upside from AI. And what I
mean by that is that if you look at kind
of the the anthropic spider chart, these
service businesses are the last
businesses to be impacted.
&gt;&gt; If someone's going to for now, if
someone's going to come and fix your
toilet,
might not fix that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Not not yet. Uh Optimus Prime is
is not running around inside your home
fixing your toilet just yet. And so so
we're at a very interesting time where
uh these businesses will only go up in
value. They're critical for the economy
uh to function and and they do
everything from uh you know protect our
supply chain. There's a lot of metal
fabricators that we work with all the
way to making sure that you're getting
food, the food distributors, the
manufacturers uh and then the service
businesses.
&gt;&gt; So on one hand, these things are are
kind of hedged from a lot of the current
AI disruption. On the other hand, isn't
it easier to run a business with AI?
&gt;&gt; 100%. Um and that's an area that we've
been investing a lot in the past couple
of quarters. My mental framework for it
is a lot of people think of AI and they
think of cost cutting and they're like,
"Oh, we can really optimize our P&amp;L. We
can use AI, automate all these jobs, cut
costs." That's not the right lens to
look at small businesses. And it's not
right for really one reason, which is
that most of the folks in the back
office of a small business are wearing
multiple hats. If Susie does payroll,
route planning, HR, and you automate one
of those jobs, you're not coming to
Susie and saying, "Congrats, you just
got a 33% discount on your payroll."
She's going to walk out of the door and
tell you you're crazy. So what what
really it is is it's a revenue growth
story. What you have to do is work with
your employees and small businesses,
figure out, hey, how can we leverage AI
to reduce the amount of monotonous work
that you're doing and then help you
identify, okay, what's the best way for
you to take that time and reallocate it
to something that generates revenue.
&gt;&gt; I love this. I think this is a really
key point that a lot of people miss is
that there's a lot of things that we
wish we could do, we wish we could work
on, wish we could build, they're not
getting done. If you go to a small town,
like there's lots of things you can see.
There's fences that are not fixed.
There's there's like there's all sorts
of things that are broken. There's all
sorts of things in the business that
aren't necessarily able to be to be
gotten to. If you have more time, you
can do more output. Right.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And we we and we see it. Right.
So, uh to give you kind of some concrete
examples on the painting business we
own. There wasn't very much of an
outbound sales motion there. It was
largely word of mouth, uh which is both,
you know, kind of benefit. You you have
some amount of moat there. Also a con.
You don't really have the levers to to
to grow quickly. We've been able to
essentially reconfigure Claude Co-work
to do an outbound sales motion to
property managers in the area, increase
the number of uh bids out on a weekly
basis and win rate. Um on another one,
we're working with a a second generation
uh food manufacturer uh really cool
peanut business um owners also.
&gt;&gt; Peanut business. What does that mean?
What's a peanut business? Yeah. So
George Washington Carver.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So they blister peanuts in most of
the grocery stores that you're you're
probably with peanuts. They blister,
right? So they get uh peanuts, they put
them in these large vats where they boil
them, they they fill them with water,
they then fry them. So, the the peanuts
have blisters on them that then coat
them in a lot of different uh
ingredients so they can flavor barbecue
peanuts, uh ranch peanuts, what have
you.
&gt;&gt; You're very good at saying this word.
I'm very worried about saying it on on
the air.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. I mean, now we have unlimited
nuts, right? Uh but um and so this
business uh they obviously don't have a
graphic design uh part of their team.
It's been around since the 60s. The
family has been in central PA for seven
generations actually, which is insane.
Um but recently, one of the employees
there has really gotten on the AI train.
they can now do really cool social media
marketing so they can build kind of a
direct to consumer uh peanut dynasty in
addition to B2B. And so like it's really
cool to see these businesses that
historically have been very you know
offline if you will adopt AI and they
can really hit the ground running uh
sometimes faster than businesses that
have been uh more more AI. But I mean,
it feels like like instead of instead of
going to law school, for example, like
like or instead of like, you know, a
master's degree in sociology or I don't
know, like should more more young people
just be saying, I'm going to like go
take over and try to learn how to run a
small business.
&gt;&gt; Yes. I I think it's really important for
them to have uh time in the trenches
working with humans. I think that takes
time and and I think a lot of the things
that are happening at like Texas State
uh technical college, other areas to
essentially get you the domain expertise
about a certain industry and then get
you as much apprenticeship or time in
the trenches with them.
&gt;&gt; You have to be willing to go learn it.
Basically,
&gt;&gt; you do. You do. And and and I would say
the owners are very discerning of
someone who's full of [ __ ] Um if you if
you don't know what you're talking
about, if you don't have uh grit, if if
you haven't gotten dirt under your
fingernails, uh they're going to sniff
that out very quickly. The customers are
going to sniff that sniff that out
quickly. the employees will so on and so
forth and so I think there's a huge
opportunity for young people to
capitalize from this wave but I am
always hesitant of the folks who are
kind of leaving corporate America and
thinking oh you know I know so much get
rich it's not a get-rich quick scheme
it's it's a it's a have a vocation have
a career where you work hard but if you
do work hard you can run these things
and you can make a lot of money be very
successful
&gt;&gt; tons of money you you would be surprised
I mean these things uh take some of the
businesses that we've worked with just
in the past couple weeks they're
spitting off millions of dollars in cash
flow uh normally most of the family is
drawing a W2 to from the business even
if they're not necessarily working. Uh
and then you have, you know, their whole
fleet of family vehicles on it as well.
Uh there's no shortage of cash flow here
if if you know how to run a good
business.
&gt;&gt; You have to have the persistence and the
grit as you say. And so so it feels like
there's literally like millions of young
people could be doing this path. It
should be a lot of our smart young
people if they're instead of like the
white collar professional, this is where
they go. Uh how do we is this a cultural
shift we need? Like how do we teach more
people about this opportunity? cuz I
think I think a lot of people like they
they culturally see like, oh, I'm going
to be a tech founder. I'm going to run
something at a bank in New York. I'm
going to be doing these like giant deals
at the hedge fund. They're like like
most people culturally don't think
about, oh, I'm going to go work hard and
like have a business that shoots off a
couple million dollars a year for me.
Like like what do we need to do to shift
this?
&gt;&gt; My mental model is two things. One, you
need role models in a PR campaign to
make people aware of this. M
&gt;&gt; um Mike Row has done a phenomenal job of
doing that for the trades. Um I know
you're friends with with Cody Sanchez.
She's done a good job of of of doing it
for small business as well. We need more
allies like that getting the word out
that success is not just going to a
four-year college, getting a liberal
arts degree, and then working in
management consultant. There are other
areas for you to to really build a great
&gt;&gt; These are real areas of America. In some
ways, this feels like the actual
businesses like you're actually like
there serving the community, doing the
hard work, making sure that the electric
electricity gets fixed, the toilet gets
fixed, the fence gets painted, right?
&gt;&gt; And it's a crisis here, right? Like in
Texas, we're short 50,000 uh trades
workers. We want to win this AI war
against China. We have no shot of doing
that if we cannot build the data
centers. The data centers require the
plumbers, the electricians, the general
contractors, the HVAC tech technicians,
so on so forth. So, I'd say it's it's
critical that we attract more people in.
I think the second piece of the problem
is okay, let's say that you solve the
the PR uh campaign. How do you get on
ramps to get folks in in the saddle as
soon as possible? Right now, we have a
lot of occupational licensing that
stands in the way of hardworking
Americans being able to work in these
industries in a short time frame.
&gt;&gt; We definitely have to fix licensing.
Arizona did a great job where they take
any other license at all and there's
other things trying to lower barriers.
uh like like if someone is a young
person, maybe they're in high school,
maybe someone listening has someone they
know in high school doesn't know what
path they should be taking, like how
would you direct them? Do you go to a
vocational school first? Do you what do
you do to kind of build skills and come
work in this area?
&gt;&gt; Yes, I I would say start by just
starting to intern at small businesses
in your community. Um there's a lot of
doom and gloom on the internet, uh on
some of the legacy media outlets as well
that there's no jobs. AI is taking all
the jobs. That may be true in corporate
America. It's completely false on Main
Street. uh 32% of current owners have
openings today. That's up two points
from last month. Um and so there's a lot
of optimism on Main Street. We need
smart people there. The number one
problem is not actually the cost of
labor, it's the quality of labor. And so
to the degree that we can get smart
people uh uh interning and and doing
apprenticeships, I would say that's
thing one. Once you've identified the
type of industry or job that you're
interested in, then I would think long
and hard over whether a four-year degree
is the best way to get there or if you'd
save yourself a a lot of money and go
into some some of these really great uh
trade schools that we have in our
country.
&gt;&gt; And I really like what you said there
because I think it's a point that's true
that everyone ignores. It's not about
it's not about that that there's not
jobs that there's not actually enough
quality people willing to willing to
work with the right culture or the right
diligence at these jobs. 32% of these
businesses you're seeing 32% of millions
of businesses have a job opening but
they can't find someone who's willing to
come and just work hard and show up on
time and is you know I think we need
cultures that are functional or people
are willing to work you know.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. And we need incentives that
that to drive that from the educational
uh system.
&gt;&gt; Well, if you tell someone they're a
victim and that they're not going to be
successful and they should just like go
find a way to get free house and and
whatever victim wages and that then that
sucks. But if you tell someone you have
to figure it out and be diligent and if
you're diligent you're going to succeed
in this country then they're going to go
work.
&gt;&gt; There is a difference between trauma and
life and I think a lot of people say
they've gone through a lot of trauma and
they've just gone through life.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Stop being a wimp basically.
&gt;&gt; Exactly.
&gt;&gt; I like I like that thing. We got there
is some certain like like it's courage
but it's like grit and it's just like
being not that it's a gender specific
but it's being a man, right?
&gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah. Like stand up and just do
it. Just figure it out.
&gt;&gt; Just get [ __ ] done. Uh it's how the
country is built. It's how all these
owners build their businesses as well.
&gt;&gt; I love it. Yeah. I I was I was we we
have the founders of cognition who who
also just on recently and these are guys
are like building some of like the
coolest AI tools and making it really
easy to build things. Do you see small
business owners like actually building
things in AI themselves with with you
know with cloud or cognition or anything
else like are they actually creating
tools for themselves?
&gt;&gt; I would say at the owner level not so
often. Um one pattern that we have seen
to kind of get back to young folks
entering is that we're very pro reviving
the American dream. That's our mission.
We're pro small business ownership. You
don't have to buy a business for us to
be happy and for us to to root for you.
Uh if you decide that buying is not the
right path and you want to start one,
we'll we'll be there rooting you along.
And we've seen a lot of folks leave
Silicon Valley and start new small
businesses. So start from scratch using
AI and absolutely clean up shop in their
towns. I know one guy who uh was was
previously working at Bird. He then uh
left. He has started a pool cleaning
business. He uh cleans pools throughout
Los Angeles. He has some of the coolest
AI automations. Um, one of them, just to
kind of tease, is he has this AI that
joins all the local neighborhood
Facebook groups and, uh, posts a post
from him that says, "Hi, me and my wife
just moved into your neighborhood. I'm a
local small business owner. If you have
a pool, I would love to clean it. Uh,
thank you for allowing me to to make
ends meet and and build a happy family
here." So, so there's that type of like
hacking.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I love it. You just got to
see what message works and do your best.
And it is interesting because a lot of
the AI outreach right now that works
might get to be too spammy and too much
pretty soon.
&gt;&gt; There's an ARB right now that you
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Right now if you're willing to be
to be agentic yourself, right, you just
Exactly. There's an ARB.
