原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bB2o81DnKHk

I don't want to get into a whole
internet fight here, but this is David
Men. He's a Harvard professor famous for
transforming CS50 into a worldclass
online computer science course. How do
you keep people engaged for a 3-hour
lecture? I think a lot of it honestly
comes from a place of insecurity. Like,
I really don't want to be the one on
stage in front of a bored audience. I'm
curious what you would say to someone
that has that mindset that you don't
need to actually know how the computer
works.
&gt;&gt; If you're going to call yourself an
engineer, you should be understanding
everything that's happening among those
layers. We also discuss how AI is
impacting cheating and enrollment. It's
harder for us now to hand to the
administrative board of Harvard or the
Honor Council, so to speak, a smoking
gun. Maybe programming will be useless
in the future.
Here's the full episode.
you posted this photo of your first
assignment in CS50, not as the teacher,
but as the student actually under Brian
Kernneahan.
&gt;&gt; What was your experience like getting
into computer science?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a really good question. So, I
was that problem set. My first Hello
World program was in September of 1996
when I first stepped foot in a class
called CS50. I was a sophomore at the
time. Um, and hadn't honestly gotten up
the nerve until sophomore year to even
consider taking the class. Like when I
came into college first year, and this
is a story I tell at the very start of
CS50 most years. I really gravitated
toward fields that were more familiar,
more comfortable for me. And I share
with students that I really liked
constitutional law. Like that was my
favorite class in high school. And I
figured that meant when you get to
college, I should probably major or
concentrate as we say at Harvard in
government. And so for the first year,
year and a half, I was heads down
focused on studying government. But when
I finally got up the nerve to like
follow some friends, I think into the
CS50 classroom that day when this very
well-reputed computer scientist, Brian
Karnahan, was at the helm uh for just
that one year. I was totally hooked. And
it was the first time in like 19 years
that homework was fun. So much so that
when the week's problem sets or
assignments would come out, I would look
forward to going back to my dorm on
Friday evenings to work through the
night on my CS50 problem sets. So, I
felt like that was a sign that I'm
supposed to study computer science.
&gt;&gt; And I I saw on that assignment it says
minus two and this little there's a
little note there that I actually
couldn't quite make out. Do you looking
back now as the teacher like why did you
get a minus two there? It was something
stupid and very easily redressable, but
I did not start off computer science or
CS50 on the best foot. I got two minus
two out of probably two points on Hello
World.
&gt;&gt; I I actually uh I transcribed it and I
tried to compile your program and it
didn't compile.
&gt;&gt; Interest. Okay, so now thanks 30 years
later.
&gt;&gt; Actually, I I was able to compile. It's
kind of interesting, but you have to
like kind of force the compiler to do
your bidding. It's like void main. Yes.
&gt;&gt; And you're supposed to be like int main
typically.
&gt;&gt; Typically now it has since been
standardized in C99 which was in my
defense a version of C that did not
exist in 1996. Um and nowadays we use
C11 or newer in CS50. So you probably
had default compiler settings on that
did not like that old-fashioned main
signature. In my defense, that part was
correct. In 1996,
&gt;&gt; what was the the story behind you going
from a student to the teacher
eventually?
&gt;&gt; I had an opportunity my senior year of
college to teach a introductory course
in computer science at Harvard's
extension school, which is the
continuing ed program largely for
adults. The course was literally called
introduction to computers and the
internet because in 1999 we were still
in a habit of introducing people to
computers and the internet as opposed to
taking it for granted more so nowadays.
Um, and it was me in a room full of
hundred or so adults. I was easily the
youngest person in the room at like 21
years old. The story I usually share is
that that was the first and last time I
wore suspenders cuz I was so determined
to project being older um even though I
was still just a senior. Um, but that
really wet my appetite in turn not only
for more computer science even though
that was very introductory and more
technology focused for teaching. Um and
over time I real over the next few years
I realized that doors would be closed to
me if I wanted to teach at a place like
Harvard College and I eventually
returned to Harvard to do my PhD for 5
years in computer science and then in
2007 when I was finishing up the former
professor my own adviser uh was moving
on to be dean of the school and so there
was this vacancy at the helm of CS50 and
I somehow talked my way into the job um
they were interested in having a senior
uh uh faculty member take over the
course. I guess they weren't able to
find someone that first year. So, I was
meant to fill in for just one year until
they found someone else and that was
somehow 19 years ago.
&gt;&gt; When you took over CS50, it feels like
the the course completely changed. When
you got into it, was your first thought,
I want to take this online and kind of
make all these major changes or was that
a process over time?
&gt;&gt; Very much a process. And so what people
see now is really a evolution of the
class as opposed to some overnight
revolution so to speak. Um the online
aspect really started with Harvard
Extension School since I was fortunate
right place right time um to be teaching
that extension school course my senior
year when distance education so to speak
was becoming a thing and my mentor and
boss Henry Lightner at Harvard offered
me the opportunity not only to teach
this class but also to put it online. I
think in the year 2000 give or take. The
very first year I taught at spring of
1999 we were still filming the class but
on VHS. Um and fun fact at the time it
was the course's teaching fellows who
were in fact my friends who were also
undergraduates at the time who were
doing the filming and operating a tripod
with a camera. And I swear to God we
still have footage probably on some VHS
tape of one of the cameras going when
one of my dear friends and teaching
fellows fell asleep during the middle of
class. Um so we've aspired to higher
production value since but it was really
by it happened very organically. So once
we started participating in the
extension school's online education
program for several years uh Apple
released the iPod around 2003 or four
give or take. And so at the time we were
distributing the courses videos via real
video and or real audio which are older
technologies now but were
state-of-the-art for streaming at the
time. We figured out a way how to sort
of download all of those bits for
redistribution as MP3s initially and put
them on iTunes, which back in the day
you could upload and maybe still today
your own RSS file, which is a flavor of
XML, which is kind of similar to HTML
but more custom that just describes what
and where your audio files are. And we
made this available primarily for our
own Harvard Extension School students
because at the time, even though it was
very progressive to have streaming, it
was a little annoying that you needed a
constant internet connection. The
buffering hadn't really been invented
yet. Certainly downloading those videos
was by design not possible. But with
podcasting, of course, you could
download the assets in advance. And for
our own students, the vision was that
they could listen to the class only on
audio uh at the gym or during their
commute and just generally make the
educational content a little more
accessible. A year or two later, Apple
released the video iPod. And so we very
much steered into that and downloaded
those same assets but in video form to
make them available on the video iPod
and people's Macs and later PCs. And we
were fortunate around that time early
2000s where Wired magazine took notice
and um noted for us that we were among
the most popular podcasts in some
category and it was kind of news to us
that people cared. We we did know that
we were starting to see bandwidth
problems at the very early days. In the
very early days we were using DreamHost
uh to host the MP3 files and DreamHost
had I think free accounts but only up to
some number of megabytes per month. and
we kept hitting the threshold. And so
what we would do is sign up for another
DreamHost account, another DreamHost
account, another DreamHost account, and
we would use like DNS trickery to just
reroute the r the URLs in the RSS file
to the new web host to keep up. And so
that's when all of our attention sort of
was drawn to the possibilities and that
we can make available this content not
just for our own students, but for
anyone else who either geographically,
socioeconomically couldn't access uh
that same kind of class. I see. So the
idea was it was a supplementary material
for people who had paid for the Harvard
Extension School
&gt;&gt; and then but other people just open on
the internet could listen if they
wanted.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And that that alone was a touchy
subject on campus at first because here
we were giving away the very thing that
other people were paying for. But at the
end of the day, what people are paying
for is the additional support structure
you get in a more traditional
environment, the more traditional
credentiing, the transcript and the
credit and so forth. But the knowledge
itself um it does society no good to
withhold that I think.
&gt;&gt; So I think this is a brutal reality of
making content on the internet. There's
so much competition for attention that
all the content has to kind of hook
people. Let's say you're scrolling on on
Instagram. That first second's really
got to capture someone otherwise you're
going to go to the next one. And I'm
curious because you are making content
for the internet with these lectures
that you post online. Do you think about
how can I you know hook the audience?
Does that ever factor into your your
lecture design
&gt;&gt; lectures? No. Um some of our social
content. Yes. in so far as we are
producing in addition to the courses
traditional in-classroom content um
things that are designed clearly for
social media whether it's interviews for
instance whether it is excerpts from
CS50's fair this exhibition of final
projects whether it's steering in the
directions of some popular meme just to
sort of catch the attention of our own
students or new students but we have
been very deliberate over the years from
the beginning and especially since the
age of the MOO in 2012 when Corsera and
edex and other platforms were coming
around to not steer into this bite-sized
3 minutes, 5 minute chunks. Um that I
know there is data to confirm that it
drives engagement but not necessarily
educational outcomes. Um, we have fairly
unusually in recent years stuck to the
more traditional model of like CS50's
lectures are like three hours long. And
there are downsides to that absolutely
but ironically online you avoid some of
the inerson downsides because you can
pause and rewind and fast forward. You
can search for something, open another
tab, go down this intellectual rabbit
hole or rewind to figure out what it
some detail you missed. I mean, I I
can't even count how many times in
college, high school, school more
generally that I'm sure I zoned out. And
it's too often the case that if you miss
some detail, you're now you might as
well leave the class at that point. And
like online solves that for you. And I
haven't seen a need pedagogically for us
to break up the content into such small
pieces and to sort of take that
ownership away from the students. Um, I
think we'd prefer that they meet us
halfway. And if you need to take more
than 3 hours to watch the lecture,
that's totally fine, but it's not
designed for scrolling type consumption,
I would say.
&gt;&gt; Right. What about in the in the idea of
like a long video? There's still this
concept that you kind of want to keep
people engaged. And so, how do you keep
people engaged for a three-hour lecture?
&gt;&gt; Yes. So, that we are very conscious of
and the way we've generally described
that is trying to create memorable
moments. And this is not for social
media. This is as much for the in-person
audience as it is for the online
audience. And by memorable moments, I
mean in like CSS's first lecture, we do
this bit where I'll tear a phone book in
half um to demonstrate the the
performance of something called binary
search and algorithms for finding
information more quickly than linearly
searching the phone book one page at a
time. And that's really just to be
dramatic. Um it has less and less impact
these days because most students uh of
school age are no longer familiar with
the technology known as a phone book.
But it's literally analogous to the
digital form in iOS or in Android, of
course. And so it doesn't take a huge
leap for someone to realize, okay, this
is the physical incarnation of that. And
it's just kind of fun, even though it's
getting harder and harder to find the
actual phone books. Um, when we get to
searching algorithms and sorting
algorithms, we very often have a student
come up on stage, for instance, and for
sorting or for searching, we have a
whole bunch of like gym lockers, small
versions thereof that we put numbers in,
either on printed paper or little
plastic numbers. And the goal is to have
a student like find the number 50 or
some other number that we've hidden
behind the doors. And it's an
opportunity just to talk about either
searching the doors linearly, left to
right, right to left, maybe randomly,
maybe more methodically as by a binary
search if the numbers are sorted. That
then leads us to opportunities to talk
about bubble sort and selection sort and
insertion sorts. algorithms that you
probably wouldn't bother implementing or
using in the wild because there's more
performant ones certainly but we use
them as these pedagogical tools to
explore the the problem to be solved
which is all right I can only use binary
search if the data is sorted so how do I
sort it and how expensive is that going
to be to make worthwhile the whole
process in the get-go and so we'll have
uh eight students come up on stage and
sort themselves physically and really
perform in certain ways and there's so
many examples of that through CS50 we
try to do at least one such thing every
class. I mean, not unlike the way John
Oliver, for instance, ends last week
tonight. We're trying to do some big
song and dance, which ironically is
always at the end as the hook. We do try
to put it maybe toward the beginning of
lecture or in the middle. But that's not
just for engagement and not to make uh
to keep folks attention, but really to
latch on to their memories so that even
if you're in the weeds of this
introductory computer science course,
there's so much new information. It's
the proverbial fire hose hitting you in
the face, you can cling to, okay, all
right, I remember like my my roommate
was literally the one on stage acting
out bubble sort and you can kind of
picture in your mind's eye what was
happening. or that phone book example is
a perfect one that years after leaving
Harvard that we have alumni coming up to
us and saying, "Oh, I still remember the
phone book demo." And those memorable
moments, ideally theatrical in nature, I
think are what brings material, whether
it's CS or something else, to life, but
that is very much to engage any learner
present or remote um as opposed to being
optimized for some technology. One thing
that I I wonder because computer science
is such a dense topic where I guess
there could be a trade-off with imagine
another style of lecture is uh you know
there's a chalkboard and you're up there
kind of blandly writing out all of the
information. I I could imagine you could
go through much more depth in that case.
Do you feel like there's any trade-off
there?
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. I mean and this is a
criticism we get from some students
particularly those with prior background
or among those more comfortable where do
we really need 10 minutes on linear
search or you know another 15 minutes on
binary search and the answer is quite
clearly no for those students and even
for most students I would say we do
spend a disproportionate amount of time
on certain cherrypicked topics that we
do think lend themselves to this
theatricality
for really getting students interested
in fundamentally and excited by the
material to help motivate them the rest
of the week when they're going to be
spending 5 10 15 20 plus hours on some
week's assignment and to help them see
sort of the forest for the trees like
what is actually important and
meaningful and fun about this because
it's probably not the keystrokes and the
debugging and the lower level
implementation details. So, we talk
about this actually in a paper in a talk
we we gave at a a CS education
conference a few years back trying to
find that balance between the
theatricality and the density of
material. But to your question about
dryness, I mean, I would like to think
that dryness really has no place in most
forms of education because, you know,
then it could have been a book or it
could have been an email. Like if it's
just someone reciting words or worse
writing things down in ways that aren't
at all interactive, like do we really
need to be all in this room together?
Like that doesn't seem like the best
design to me.
&gt;&gt; In my research and looking at the
reception of CS50 and people's
perspective on how you are as an
educator, they absolutely love your
energy and like your delivery. Do you
rehearse that or is that something that
you always had as an educator?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think it's just the sort of the
expression, you got to bring your agame
when you get up onto stage. And I think
a lot of it honestly comes from a place
of insecurity. Like I really don't want
to be the one on stage in front of a
bored audience. Like no one wants to be
in that situation. And so I think a lot
of the energy that I try to bring to
bear and the excitement I show is really
meant to one make sure people want to be
and stay there for the duration of the
class whether it's short or long. and
also help them see the excitement in and
the possibilities of and the
applicability of a field that I myself
have fell in love with so many years
ago. Um because then they can decide for
themselves if they feel that same
emotion, if they too look forward to
going home to their dorm or their home
on Friday nights and working on
programming assignments of all things.
But I feel like we certainly owe them
and I think teachers owe students more
generally educationally the opportunity
to make that decision for themselves and
to put uh forward our best foot or to
present the field in the most exciting
inspiring way that we can if indeed we
think it's important that other people
after us study and research and apply
these fields. I noticed this uh
dichotomy in education when I was going
to UCLA which was there were roughly two
types of professors that I had. There
was one type of professor that was
beloved by the students and really
passionate at educating and kind of
involved and then there's this other
type of professor which was really they
might have been really incredible and
impressive as researchers but their
classes were really uh poorly rated by
all the students and
&gt;&gt; with the online education that we can do
to I mean like CS50 all the resources
are available I could imagine that
objectively we could take the people who
are most passionate about teaching and
give it to everyone rather than having
some teachers that are not excited kind
of consolidate take imagine taking the
world's best instructor and giving that
to everyone. Why doesn't consolidation
happen if we have all the technology for
spreading literally the world's best
resources to every situation?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's a good question since I
think our own goal is certainly not to
put out of business other educators,
other classes. However, as a computer
scientist, I would be among the first to
notice that there's a huge inefficiency
in the way education broadly works, not
only in this country, but presumably um
internationally as well, whereby you
have hundreds, thousands of teachers
essentially all doing the same thing in
parallel and not necessarily the
meaningful part of interacting with and
uplifting and mentoring students, but
like preparing their their presentations
or their lecture notes or writing the
assignments or grading that work.
there's so much meta work involved in
education that probably doesn't need to
be borne by so many people that the
computer scientist in me like invariably
wants to factor that out somehow. And so
I absolutely think that we educationally
as universities as schools should be
leaning on each other much more. Um I'd
like to think that's a lot of what
drives us in terms of CS50's own mission
and the work that we do. But we too have
encountered frictions along the way. Um
it was very unusual for instance for 10
years that we were collaborating with
our friends down the road in New Haven
at Yale University where we were
offering CS50 on both campuses in
parallel and more recently we've been
doing this um with some of our friends
at Oxford and the lifelong learning
group there. This is very much still the
exception to the rule unfortunately even
after 10 plus years of MOO's massive
open online courses. I dare say a lot of
institutions a lot of faculty are very
set in their ways. In fact, one of my
regrets of the COVID era were that we
was that we had this unprecedented
opportunity now and almost mandate to
move everything online and we therefore
had this opportunity to say, "Hey, to
Harvard students, why don't you take
this Stanford course or this UCLA course
or this Yale course or this MIT course
that you couldn't necessarily take in
person uh for lack of transport or for
lack of safety at the time. and I could
get no one on campus to to get on board
with this idea of maybe offering one
computer science course on this campus
and let the other students take it. Then
you offer, as we did at Yale, like a
digital humanities class on some other
campus and let the Harvard students take
it. And there's just not much of an
appetite, I dare say, in higher
education, if not education at large,
for that resource sharing. And I think
there should be um I don't think there
should be one computer science course,
introductory course. I think some
healthy competition is a good thing. I
don't think there need to be thousands,
probably not hundreds, maybe dozens from
some of the best teachers, the best
schools. Um, would probably benefit us
all if those same teachers then were not
put out of work, but then could lean on
each other, use some of the materials
we've created, adopt, or as we say,
adapt some of our own resources, and
treat education as a buffet of
educational materials that you can then
make your own without having to do so
much of the same leg work and
reinventing wheels across school and
state lines. the mindset that you said
the the computer scientist mindset of
getting rid of the redundancies and kind
of um consolidating resources. I mean
it's immediately logically obvious to me
but um what would like let's say there's
there's three top courses in America
there's like MIT's there's Stanford's
and there's Harvards and you know they
want to give that to other institutions
like I don't know other other colleges
what would what would stop those
colleges from taking an objectively
better set of resources and giving that
to their students
I sense but I would defer to others who
who hold these views that there is a
concern that maybe we are putting
ourselves out of business or there's
more of a a school pride and I
definitely saw some of that on Harvard's
own campus where like no no no like we
should be offering courses to our
students that we have created and that
we are teaching and not lean for
instance on our friends down the road at
MIT who have and have for decades had a
larger richer course catalog than us
simply by nature of being a bigger place
at least for computer science. And it
seems silly to me not to lean on each
other. Maybe each of us can specialize a
bit more. Maybe each of us can offer
slightly different modes of of
instruction for students. Maybe that's a
little more intimate on this campus
versus that so as to really leverage
shared resources. I mean, this is done
endlessly in research having
cross-campus collaborations. And there's
something very personal about or very
fundamentally threatening I think about
leaning on each other educationally and
I wish people would move away from this
mindset because it doesn't mean some
failure of the institution to offer
these courses. It means we can do a
better job offering what resources we do
have. I would like to think in designing
the curriculum for CS50. How did you
pick C for instance? because I think a
lot of people would look at that
decision and think, I'm not going to use
C in my day-to-day full stack job, so
why do I need to learn this?
&gt;&gt; Sure. Um, so it was not picked by me per
se, but I chose to keep C in the course
certainly since as far back as 1996 when
Brian was teaching it, Professor Marggo
Seltzer before that and many other
faculty prior to me and them. Um, it is
a wonderful foundation on which to build
your understanding of how a computer
works and how software is built. It's
about as close as you can get to the
hardware before things devolve at least
aesthetically into assembly code which
is much scarier looking code I think for
most people almost everyone perhaps. Um,
and certainly u beyond that is zeros and
ones which is not going to be fun for
anyone. Um, so C kind of strikes, I
think, pedagogically this really nice
balance of having English-like syntax
and abstractions on top of lower level
primitives that allow you to explore
procedural programming u in particular
with some fundament constructs that are
now fundamental to those kinds of
languages loops and conditions and
functions and variables and return
values and so forth. It's sort of got
it's got everything but it's also a
pretty small language and unless you
download third party stuff there's not a
very large standard library in fact so
most anything you want you need to build
yourself and so we leverage this
significantly in CS50 so much so that by
mid- semester in week five of the class
students are building their own hashts
and we're talking about how you could
construct singly linked doubly linked
lists uh hashts and tries uh trees
abstract data types like stacks and cues
and so many more and what I think is
especially meaningful about C is that
you can't just instantiate one of those
data structures if you want one like you
can in Java and C++ with STL and certain
other libraries like if you want it
you're going to have to build it
yourself and I think that alone is a
good educational exercise not because
you're going to need to build that thing
again but because there's value I think
in really understanding from the bottom
up what is going on inside of that
device so that one you can make more
informed decisions as to how you want to
engineer and design your own data
structures down the
two, you can diagnose problems by
reasoning through first principles what
could possibly go wrong because you
understand how the data is being stored
and what the algorithms are that are
performing on that data. Um, and three,
it's a wonderful scaffold to higher
level languages because one of my
favorite things from week five to six in
CS50 is students go from having written
the week in week five like their own
hashts implementation uh for adding
data, retrieving data and so forth,
which is like this many lines of code
for some font size. And it it gets
whittleled down in week six to one line
where you just instantiate a Python
dictionary. But and you can be
productive with a dictionary and many
courses do teach programming by way of
Python alone. And we too have done it
for some of our audiences but you really
never get around to understanding what's
going on underneath the hood. And our
goal in CS50 among them is not to uh
output programmers but engineers and
educated citizens and folks who really
understand from first principles how
technology works. And so C for instance
strikes I think just that right balance.
And for those students who want to go
even deeper in a systems class, they can
go learn about assembly and compilers
and so forth. Um, but those students who
want to go on to web programming or data
science stuff or AI nowadays can just
build on top of the C and then in turn
Python um layers that we use in the
class. For this podcast, I produce
transcripts for every episode for
convenient skimming and I built a custom
tool to automate that. Recently, I
noticed in the Barbara Liskoff
transcript, my simple speechtoext tool
was getting a lot of things wrong. For
instance, the clue programming language
is spelled all caps clu, not clue. So to
fix this, I used cursor 3, picked the
strongest version of opus 4.7 extra
high, and had an agent make a plan to
fix that. And while I was waiting, I
figured I'd trigger a few more agents
for code cleanups and front-end
improvements. um it generated a
reasonable plan with rich system
diagrams. It applied all the changes
within minutes and worked on the first
try. So if you want to build something
with the flexibility of sending off a
bunch of agents with frontier models of
your choice, you can go to cursor.com to
try out cursor 3. This is not my
perspective, but um I was doing research
and I saw a YouTube video. It said
whatever you do, don't take CS50
clickbait, whatever. Yeah. So I watched
the video and the person worked.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it got me. It got me.
&gt;&gt; And the perspective of the author of
this video was that CS50 teaches you all
this stuff that you don't really need to
know if you were like a full stack
engineer or something like if you if I
was just going into the industry and I'm
just making web apps that a lot of this
um underlying stuff you you might not
need and so maybe it's not a good use of
time. And I'm curious what you would say
to someone that has that that mindset
that you don't need to actually know how
the computer works.
&gt;&gt; I don't want to get into a whole
internet fight here, but I think that is
absolutely the wrong mindset. Certainly
for a full stack engineer. I mean, by
definition of full stack, you should be
understanding everything that's
happening among those layers. So I think
the better formulation isn't that you
don't need to know these things, but
rather you won't need to use these
things. use in a literal sense like I
don't my C is a very popular language
even according to some rankings each
year it's you know the number one number
two language in terms of its
omnipresence still to this day because
it's very highly performant um albeit
more challenging to write than some
languages I only use C for five weeks
during CS50 itself but that doesn't mean
that it hasn't helped me understand
higher level languages what is going on
inside of a system how you can improve
the performance of or the design of some
system by understanding again those
first principles. Uh I don't use Scratch
except for one week out of the year. I
do use Python more frequently and I use
JavaScript and some HTML and CSS. But I
think if you're going to call yourself
an engineer, you should absolutely have
mastery of and knowledge of those
underlying building blocks. if you want
to not just output something that
frankly AI could output nowadays, but
you can understand and you can create
the next thing or the solution to some
other problem that we haven't even yet
solved. Um, I think that's the better
mindset to appreciate. Yes, I'm not
going to need to use Scratch or C or
maybe some of the other things we touch
on in CS50, but the knowledge and the
principles that we extract from those
implementation details are incredibly
valuable if you want to be an engineer
and not just say a coder is which is a
distinction that some folks might make.
I was looking at the syllabus and
there's C obviously and there's all the
amaz you know basic data structures
those types of things bread and butter
and then in the end of the course
there's the a week on artificial
intelligence which I was surprised to
see in an intro course because it's kind
of like
&gt;&gt; there's no way that you could teach AI
in a week. So I I'm assuming it's a more
highle introduction. It is it's only for
an hour and it technically temporarily
it's offered in the middle of the
semester for the on-ampus students. Um
it coincides by design with uh family
weekend when uh first years and juniors
uh students parents come to town very
frequently. Um and so we do it as a very
broad introduction to what everyone is
talking about nowadays in the AI space.
Um there are full-fledged classes of
course at Harvard and other institutions
that students can take and it's really
meant to wet their appetite but also
give them some context for the very
tools we're using in CS50. We have this
virtual rubber duck that's built on top
of OpenAI's APIs and Microsoft Azure's
web serp
um that they're using every day or every
week certainly throughout CS50. So among
the goals pedagogically is to help them
understand what are the tool how do the
tools work that you yourself have been
using. Two to help them understand what
is it that the world is talking about
nowadays and three prepare them to use
these tools more effectively by the end
of the semester because for instance for
CS50's final project students are
encouraged and welcome to use claude or
chatbt or Gemini or any number of
off-the-shelf AI tools though we don't
allow those through policy for the
courses assignments. Yeah, I had a
conversation with uh uh another
professor and specifically about um you
know is AI affecting how the kids are
learning
&gt;&gt; and uh his perspective was it was kind
of um and maybe he didn't do it properly
and the students were overrelying on it
and I think that is a concern that a lot
of people have is that students these
days can be more brain dead like you
could just go to chat GBT and say
honestly just solve the problem for
for you as an educator in computer
science, what is the ideal uh
relationship with AI for your students?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, this virtual rubber duck at
CS50.AI, which anyone with a free GitHub
account can use, um is really meant by
design to be a less helpful version of
Chat GPT, one that is also more attuned
to CS50's own material and syllabus and
so forth. Um, and that's because all of
these tools off the shelf can pretty
much do your homework for you. And this
has been true for several years even
before the fall of 2022 when chatpt came
out. I mean we were looking closely at
GitHub copilot for some time because if
you created an empty text file in VS
Code called mario.c which is the file
name we use for one of CS50's pro uh
problem sets and if you so much as type
I think hash and then I for include you
pretty much get a suggestion to
autocomplete the entirety of that
particular problem set. Um, and that's
just because I mean we for better for
worse are part of these models in so far
as the open courseware has presumably
been slurped up as with the rest of the
internet as part of the training data so
to speak for these AI models. Um, so
that is both good and bad and that's why
we set out to make our own sort of duck
themed version of these tools that puts
downward pressure on that willingness of
the tools to be too helpful. And we've
tried to attune the duck to be more akin
to a good teacher or tutor that leads
you to the solution but certainly
doesn't autocomplete your whole way
through it. I see. So, there's like a
system prompt or some scaffolding that
says, "Don't answer the question, but
help me figure it out."
&gt;&gt; Pretty much. And it's much easier to do
this now than it was in 2022 and 2023
when we first rolled this out. Um, which
is to say, there's a lot of tools, even
commercial tools that faculty can use to
do the same kind of thing for their own
course. Um, for us it was important to
draw a clean line in the sand to
students because you could approximate
this duck by just telling students, "Hey
everyone, go copy paste this system
prompt as you describe into chatbt
before you ask your homework question
and no one's going to do that and like
it's going to drift out of date and it
just feels too clunky. Students are just
going to end up typing into the prompt."
Whereas I think it's a lot cleaner um if
not simpler to know I cannot through
policy go to chatpt Gemini copilot any
of these things but I can go to and use
as much as I want cs50.ai or the plugin
we have in VS code of the same. Um and
that to me is a very healthy line
because you know if you're crossing that
line if you're pulling up chatgpt.com or
gemini.google.com google.com and the
like. Um, and at that point, it's a
conscious choice to be academically
dishonest as we would describe it in
CS50's syllabus.
&gt;&gt; When I was going through my CS
education, um, cheating was already
pretty rampant. Um, I mean, people put
their code on GitHub and you kind of
paraphrase someone else's code. Well,
not me, but other people. And uh I I
imagine with the new technology that
actually I mean with with anything with
cheating it's adversarial. There's
people who are cheating and there's
people are trying to catch the cheaters,
right? I could imagine that the cheating
tools are advancing faster than the
ability to catch them because you just
generate the code. It's not easy to say,
"Oh, that was um you know AI generated
or whatever." So, uh, I'm curious if you
see more cheating on your end and, um,
yeah, generally if you're catching more
of dishonesty.
&gt;&gt; Statistically, we are not catching more.
I would like to think that the
behav the misbehavior has not
marketkedly increased if only because we
like a lot of intro courses around the
world um have a tradition of looking for
academic dishonesty plagiarism code that
was copied and pasted off the internet
or YouTube video and we within CS50 like
a lot of peer institutions are very good
at catching that like we have tools that
cross compare all of student submissions
against each other against GitHub
repositories of past submissions that we
have of YouTube videos that have been
transcribed
So we have historically
administratively disciplined so to speak
between five and 10% of CS50 student
body every semester and that's kind of a
norm among across peer institutions you
know uh upper bound of roughly 10%.
There's certainly probably some
percentage of students who have been
cheating in some form all these years
and never have been detected. But just
based on the rigor with which we go
through this, the messaging throughout
the course, like I'd like to think that
a good 90% of students are behaving in
the way that they should, at least when
the boundaries are set through not only
policy, but course culture and through
the support structure that we provide to
students. Um that said, um we've not
seen an uptick in uh in what in
detections of academic dishonesty. Um I
what has gotten harder is the so-called
prosecution of those cases in the sense
that it's harder for us now to hand to
the administrative board of Harvard or
the honor council so to speak a smoking
gun. Like here is the URL from which
this code was copied because it's not
really coming from a URL or a YouTube
video. It's coming from the composition
of all of the URLs out there and all of
the YouTube videos about CS50's problem
sets because the AI somewhat pseudo
randomly is spitting out an amalgam of
these various training inputs. Um, that
said, when you've been doing this long
enough, like you can tell that this is
not the work of this particular student,
either in comparison to past work that
they submitted or the sophistication
with which they're solving a problem or
the incorrectness with which they're
solving the problem. And there's often
telltale signs like this is not this
year's problem set. This is last year's.
And so clearly this did not come from
you alone. So we certainly are able to
detect the easier to detect behaviors,
&gt;&gt; right? 5 to 10% that feels uh
spiritually like a lot like one out of
10 students uh doing something. But I
mean you have the
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean 20 years ago I probably
would have agreed after seeing it year
after year after year. I'm just glad
it's not higher than that.
&gt;&gt; On the topic of uh AI, a lot of
students, they see where these uh these
agentic tools are going. They're
generating code that is superhuman in
many cases. And I think it gives people
this sense of dread. Like imagine you're
spending all this time getting better at
programming and you think that maybe
programming will be useless in the
future. You know, if an anxious student
comes to you and says,"I don't know if I
should be learning computer science,"
what would you say?
&gt;&gt; I wouldn't worry about getting better at
programming. The whole point of so many
of these courses has been about getting
better at problem solving and like that
is a life skill whether you're going to
stay in CS or tech uh more generally or
leave it for some other field in which
there's still going to be problems just
different types of problems. And there
too is why we constantly tell students
the course is not about Scratch and C
and Python and JavaScript. Like these
are all implementation details. And
while they definitely have and
consciously have pedagogical value,
that's why they're in the syllabus. The
goal is not to teach students Scratch
and C and Python and JavaScript, but how
to solve problems and to give them
representative tools with which they can
solve those problems and also an
understanding of those same first
principles from which they can reason
about some symptom they're seeing or
some problem they are ultimately trying
to solve. Um, AI is pretty darn good
already at generating code. It's only
going to get better. But that's
wonderful in so far as it's going to
save us humans from the stuff that was
never very fun to begin with. Even I am
guilty of never really writing as many
like unit tests for my code to test the
correctness automatically. That stuff
can be very easily and robustly
generated nowadays. What I don't want
the computer to take from me is sort of
the fun part of that. The the fun part
that's always been there, which is the
designing of the system itself. maybe
thinking about what the UX should be so
that you can optimize for the user
experience or what the database design
might be or what data you want to
collect in pursuit of some business
problem because you know you're going to
need to analyze or mine it for some
valuable insight later on. Like that
stuff's probably not going away anytime
soon. And the other reassurance I would
give students nowadays is like the world
is only getting more technological and
we've kind of seen this pattern before
where I took CS50 for instance at really
the peak of the so-called dotcom era. So
1996 and then sort of the world started
trending down when all the startups were
going out of business and students were
exiting computer science. But like then
the pendulum swung back and I don't
think we have saturated the world in
terms of technology. Every business
small and large is probably going to
keep using it more and more. we in our
personal lives are only going to keep
needing it more and more and so like
those are problems to be solved and yes
I don't think we'll need as many humans
to write HTML and CSS anymore which was
at the risk of picking another fight
never that much fun anyway um and maybe
we won't really need to use C or Python
anymore but we can start programming
like a PM a product manager using our
voice using our words in English or some
other human language but that all that
alone would be wonderful um case in
point I was playing with Claude this
morning to just help me prototype
something and it was wonderful for me to
be able to just think about the problem
and sort of the engineering side of it
and say all right Claude much like an
intern please go implement this for me
because I really don't want to go
reading the documentation which was
never that intellectually interesting I
could if I wanted to and I understand
how it's structured but I don't need to
keep repeating that kind of exercise
again and again but at least in the
near-term case in point Claude came back
very confidently with a solution that
was like 90% correct and I had to
convince Claude odd so to speak by
chatting back with it that like no no no
no no like this is not possible per the
API docs at this URL. So of course you
get the apologetic response from the LLM
and this kind of error rate or
hallucination will decrease with
frequency but like this is why the human
should stay in charge for some time in
in today's environment it we can
relatively confidently say these tools
empower us and they don't replace fully
yet but I think a lot of people are
worried about okay but what if you know
it gets what if it gets even better like
what if that 90% becomes
99% or you know maybe it becomes 100%.
Then I think people get scared but you
know it's hard to say exactly in the
future but in so far as our goal within
even a class like CS50 has always been
to out to output a more educated
citizenry to teach students how to teach
themselves to teach them how to be more
methodical more algorithmic and problem
solving like all of that is valuable
whether or not we have robots doing work
for us in our future. I think
&gt;&gt; you talked about the enrollment rates
and I have this uh little screenshot
because you had written this I think
this paper from long time ago about
redesigning CS50 and you kind of I'll
put this overlay this in the video but
um you know there's this trend of kind
of enrollment rates going up and then
they they tank with the top.com bubble
and then they went up as well because of
some adjustments that you made and that
right now we're kind of in this um you
know AI is really shifting things.
&gt;&gt; How if you were to continue this graph
forward is enrollment and interest in
computer science declining because of
the uh AI?
&gt;&gt; Oh, lately that absolutely seems to be
the case and that was preceded I think
over the past few years really by the
downturn in tech offerings. Uh I mean we
were seeing this in the recruiting
pipeline on campus where there were just
fewer opportunities and there was less
of an appetite among some of the big
tech companies to even bother coming to
campus if they just didn't have many
entry-level roles for students. And that
was before GPT and similar tooling was
sort of omnipresent. So AI has only
exacerbated I think that concern. Um but
I think what we're going to see if we
sort of extrapolate out is that there's
going to be these es and flows over the
years. Um much like we've seen or the
pendulum swinging each uh different way
whatever whichever metaphor you prefer.
Um just as humans have a tendency I do
think especially in tech to overreact to
things both positively and negatively.
And while AI is absolutely here to stay,
I do think it's going to become
equivalent in our minds to just what
technology is. AI is a nice sort of
buzzword and way to distinguish it from
some of the more deterministic or um
predictable outcomes that like
technology to date has maybe had. You
know, I think back even over my 19 years
with CS50 and, you know, AR and VR was
to be all the rage and then we had
blockchain and Bitcoin and uh Google
Glass even like excited the imagination
like no other technology at the time and
all of these things are still with us in
some form or some future incarnation and
especially with blockchain and bitcoin
like there's some resiliency there and
AR and VR still very omnipresent in
games but it's just been fascinating to
watch the world the tech world
especially the VC world sort react and
overreact habitually to these kinds of
things until we sort of find a healthier
medium where people appreciate the the
real value and not just the
opportunistic uh value of it all. You're
in a unique position because you you
teach the in-person Harvard class and
then you also do the massively online
version as well. And I think it's an
interesting case study because um some
people have the opinion that the
important part of college is actually
not the education. And it feels like
this this um you know inerson version
versus the online one is it's kind of
proof of that which is that
you could not go to Harvard but get a
world-class education yet the outcomes
are very different. So, I'm curious your
your thoughts on uh going to college
versus getting the worldclass education
for free.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think it depends on your goals.
I think there's absolutely value of
places like Harvard really because of
that credentiing and also it's a filter
from the get-go. I mean, these
admissions departments are already
identifying strengths among people and
sort of the audience you then end up
with is very similar along certain axes,
certainly along academic abilities and
whatnot. But the value of places like
Harvard, I do think has long been the
networking opportunities, the
connections you make, the life
experiences you might have in academics
sometimes to a fault, like is is often
secondary. But when it comes to
knowledge and learning outcomes and
practical skills, I mean, I'd like to
think that you're getting as good, if
not better, an experience taking a class
like CS50 online, if only for the simple
technological reasons that you can pause
and fast forward and rewind and open
multiple tabs, go down this intellectual
rabbit holes in ways that a traditional
campus is just not designed to support
unless those same students are taking
the class in their dorm rooms um or at
home like like during co. You've taught
so many years of this same material.
What is the the most difficult concept
that you see people consistently having
trouble
&gt;&gt; pointers in C? And that was true for me
30 years ago. So much so that I'm always
very weirdly excited to tell students in
class nowadays that I still remember
where I was on campus the day I finally
got pointers. And I'll share here. I was
in one of the dining halls on campus
with my teaching fellow or TF who
himself was a a student probably one or
two uh one or two years older than me.
We were sitting at the back of the
dining hall on these wooden tables in
this beautiful old school sort of
Harvard room. And somehow or other
something he said that day after weeks
of struggling that light bulb went off
for me. And I'm like, "Oh, it's just an
address." which, you know, never quite
clicked. Even though I'm sure many
people tried to hammer that into me
previous to that, but it's just hard
like memory stuff is hard, especially if
computers to students from the get-go is
very much this black box, this
abstraction itself. Um, to really go
down to that level takes some some new
thinking and it took me a while. Let's
say someone is trying to help someone
else grasp a difficult concept. like
what's your your best tip on how to
really teach someone something that
they're really struggling with?
&gt;&gt; My my instinct is to say metaphors and
or what we more broadly call memorable
moments where it's a phone book where
you're trying to teach binary search or
even a screenshot of the iOS context app
where you're trying to uh introduce the
same algorithm. It's during co for
instance we worked with a local theater
and we had seven physical doors on a
stage that were from previous plays that
they had put on and we put fuzzy little
numbers behind that the prop shop had
kindly developed for us so that we could
play that same game of using not lockers
but physical doors and creating those
binary doors for students I think helps
them latch on to a visual that makes a
very esoteric topic that frankly who
really cares about binary search
dayto-day just kind of come alive and
you realize at least back in in the day
of actual phone books like, "Oh, I've
been using this the whole time. I just
didn't know what to call it." And I
think that's very empowering to use
metaphors to create memorable moments
that help students realize that even the
seemingly most arcane topics are still
very much within their grasp and perhaps
not so dissimilar. Even when we talk
about binary for students, we like to
show them that, hey, here's a number
like 123. Well, why is it 123? Because
there's the ones place, the 10's place,
the hundreds place, and so forth. Hey,
guess what? binary is the exact same
methodology, but you just have the ones
place, the tw's place, the four's place,
and so forth. And helping people realize
like, oh, like that's all it is, I think
is very empowering because suddenly they
feel like they're part of the
conversation and they actually know what
they're talking about all the more even
when they thought that was a domain for
uh those more comfortable only.
Open AAI, Enthropic, Curser, and
Verscell all use this product to make
their lives better. And the problem it
solves is when you're building SAS or an
AI product and you want to sell to other
companies, there's all these
requirements you need to meet. There's
SSO, there's SKIM, there's arbback,
there's audit logs. These are all things
that take time to integrate, but aren't
the main focus of your app. Work OS is
an API layer that lets you meet all of
these requirements in just a few lines
of code. So, let's say you have a new
SAS product and you want to sell to
other companies. work OS will solve all
of these critical feature gaps for you.
You can check them out at workos.com to
learn more and get started and I
appreciate them for supporting my work
and sponsoring this podcast. For people
who struggle, I mean this this idea of
growth mindset versus you're kind of
born with some innate talent. and you've
seen so many students that I feel like
you probably have a perspective on this,
but I I'm curious if you think that
there's anyone that's just born that
can't learn computer science. And that's
not the world that I want to live in,
but you know, let's just say you have
someone and you explain a race to them,
you know, 100 times and they they kind
of don't get the concepts. Do you feel
like really you can kind of grow and and
learn?
&gt;&gt; I think to an extent. I mean, if you if
it's still not sinking in after a
hundred times, like I mean, frankly, I
think good educational advice would be
like maybe this isn't the field for you
and this is how you've been empirically
figuring that out. If it's just not
clicking in a way that's exciting you,
that's making you happy, then okay, stop
beating yourself up. Like find something
else that's of interest to you. But if
you're struggling and you're thinking of
giving up after two times, 10 times, 49
times, I'm not quite sure where the cut
off is. Like, you should probably
continue to try to power through, not
necessarily by taking that same
approach, but find some other class,
some other professor, some other
teaching assistant, some other book to
try a different perspective or angle on
it because maybe you're just not jing
with like the form of instruction or the
style of the teacher, myself included.
So, I wouldn't give up thinking it's you
alone. Um, and I do think too that's
really the secret ingredient is time.
Like fine, if you don't if you can't
quite finish the course in 12 weeks,
take 24 or take 52. Like that's
perfectly fine, especially if you're
juggling other things. This isn't
necessarily your primary focus. I think
time is a perfectly reasonable knob to
turn. And I think that puts it well
within reach of so many other people.
&gt;&gt; TS50 is um beloved. people have the
reception online is so overwhelmingly
positive and you've been doing it for so
long. What is next with CS50? Like do
you see yourself kind of continuing the
same curriculum for the next decade or
will things change?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think CS50 itself will continue
to evolve as it as it long has. I do
think it'll continue to change both in
terms of tooling and concepts as AI sort
of permeates our lives and technology
all the more. That said, I think it's
always meant to be this introductory
course in problem solving. So, I think
there will be this backbone that remains
and has been there even since my day.
Even though the problem sets are very
different nowadays, the style of the
lectures is very different. If you
really compare the syllabus from fall of
1996 versus now and will be fall 2026,
like they're not that fundamentally
different. They're just packaged very
differently and stylized, I think, very
differently. But there's a lot of
knowledge and conceptual framework and
practical skills that are very invariant
over the years. Um what we have been
doing in recent years though is steering
in the direction of developing all the
more of a complete curriculum. So
courses that students can take for free
online through open courseware after
CS50 um earlier courses gentler courses
that students can take uh before CS50
itself or even instead of CS50 itself
depending on the goals that they have
and the background that they're bringing
to bear. Um the plan in the near term is
to branch out beyond computer science
working with a colleague of ours Tom
Crawford at the University of Oxford on
uh courses in maths or maths as he says
um in all sorts of fields so as to help
uplift students who are taking say
computer science courses but don't have
the requisite math background that might
be ideal to have so that you don't
struggle with certain things that we
might otherwise just take for granted.
Um, beyond that, uh, STEM more broadly
is of interest and while we're not
expert our experts ourselves, um,
working with colleagues of ours in the
arts and humanities and trying to bring
this form of theatricality and these
memorable moments, uh, to a stage, but
with far more people and subjects than
me and mine.
&gt;&gt; When you mentioned math and these other
subjects, it kind of reminds me, I mean,
I haven't been in the schooling system
for a long time, but, uh, Khan Academy
was like a very popular resource. I I
imagine that's still around. And so that
would be I guess a competitor.
&gt;&gt; I do think some healthy competition is
good is if it drives different courses,
different teachers to sort of try new
things and teach differently. Um but I
think the more the marrier. The world
only benefits from more educational
resources.
&gt;&gt; And so if those are let's say I'm okay,
let's say I'm a parent and I'm deciding
should I put my high schooler in the
Khan Academy learning track of math or
what you plan to offer? From what I've
seen certainly of Khan Academyy's work
is that they're um like ours I think is
more of a cast of characters at least on
video form at least. I know the earliest
of um Salan's work was sort of the
handwritten style for his niece or
nephew um which was wonderfully
compelling and engaging. I think we
stylistically are just very different
and I think we try across CS50s courses
traditionally to have a a shared
aesthetic, a shared pedagogical style, a
shared lecturing style so that when you
take a a CS50 course so to speak, you
sort of know what you're getting because
it's very similar in spirit to the
others in the ecosystem.
&gt;&gt; Coming to the end, like when you look
back on your your career, what is your
biggest regret? I would say I wish
someone had told me or I wish I had
known to just calm down. Like at least
when I was in university, I was one of
these students who again came in
thinking I was going to major in
something else. Government in my case, I
was one of those students who went to my
first uh RA meeting, proctor meeting,
advisor meeting with probably on a sheet
of paper all 32 courses I thought I was
going to take at Harvard, which did not
come to pass. But it really led me
astray in some way the first year and a
half of school. in that I was really
focused on crossing requirements off the
list, taking the courses I thought I
should. And it wasn't until sophomore
year that I took CS50, which was eye
opening and allowed me to start to
pivot. But even then, I hadn't broken
out of that mold probably until senior
fall, senior spring, when I finally took
an introduction to Latin course, which
was just for fun and was just so
interesting and eye opening. And I
finally understood aspects of English
and Spanish retroactively that I never
really had mastered when taking those
same classes. I took a course on um
dramatic arts 101 which was a survey
class on theater and writing and uh set
design and and acting and pretty much
every uh elemental aspect of theater was
introduced in this class and I wish I
had thought to take a class like that
and even in graduate school I was only
gradually learning this lesson finally
uh audited essentially a course in
archaeology which was so much fun so
much so I had this existential crisis
thinking maybe I should have gone to a
PhD in archaeology instead but I I I
stayed with CS
And I just wish someone had told me to
calm down early on and sort of explore
more, particularly areas in which I
thought I'd be less comfortable. And
that's at least a message I try to give
to students nowadays. As for
professional regrets, thankfully
relatively few come to mind. If
anything, you know, I used to joke even
with some of our own TAs that in so far
as I've largely stayed in academia, you
know, I've never had like a real job,
but um as recently as a recent sbatical,
I spent a whole semester essentially
interning with GitHub as a professor in
residence and learning the ropes of a
realworld software engineering company
and having access to the the internal
issues and bug reports and feature
requests and sitting in as a fly on the
wall to some of the team meetings and
design chats. And it was so much fun to
actually live the life that we've been
teaching about for so long. And there
too, I wish I had done that earlier or
at least in parallel had done maybe more
consulting opportunities or done a
little bit more in the real world before
coming back to school and then staying
in school.
&gt;&gt; Did you ship a project or or like what
was that time at GitHub like? What was
the
&gt;&gt; It wasn't I don't think I contributed
code. I definitely contributed issues
and bug reports and feature requests. My
sort of role was to be this educational
voice at the table, especially in the
design of certain products and to at
least speak up on behalf of educational
use cases, give teachers a voice at the
table when it came comes to certain
features that would really make the
student experience better, particularly
in tools like VS Code, albeit on the
Microsoft side or some of the internal
GitHub tooling. So, I don't think you'll
find any code that I wrote, but
hopefully one of my issues underlies
some code that's now in the codebase.
&gt;&gt; What about looking back on your time
doing CS50? Like, if you were to just
reflect on what went well and what
didn't go well, like just the highlights
of, you know, your time running the
course, what what would you say?
&gt;&gt; I think it's been very meaningful. So
much so that it's become our mission
organically to have this now tradition
of open courseware that wasn't certainly
our own idea. It was really inspired by
our friends down the road at MIT who
really championed this decades ago. But
very happy with how that has evolved
because it's made the work all the more
meaningful in ways that go beyond just
education but helping as we've heard
anecdotally from some of our students
out there very professional impacts life
impacts being able to better care for
your family or to pivot professionally
into a field that you didn't think was
for you like that has just been very
meaningful and rather makes it all
worthwhile and I hope too in so far as
we've been bit unusual both with our
production value and openness trying to
sort of offer an example that others
could follow that hey maybe more people
should be doing this more people should
be sharing leaning on us leaning on them
um because I do think that's still a
missed opportunity educationally
what's your best like technical book
recommendation if someone wants to learn
programming or if there's maybe some
other topic that you you know recommend
a book for uh yeah I'd love to hear it
&gt;&gt; my favorite book is Hitcher's Guide to
the Galaxy and I think everyone should
read that or play the terminalbased
video game that existed when I was
growing up of it. Um, funny enough,
within CS50's courses, it's been a few
years since we officially recommended
any books. This is partly consistent
with our commitment to openness and for
everything being free so that there
isn't some financial barrier to someone
out there to needing a textbook for the
course. Um, that said, over the years
and to this day, some of my favorite
tech books, even though they're
increasingly outdated, are this
brilliantly colorful, picturesque, easy
to understand and accessible book called
How Computers Work, which we used in
that course I first taught in 1999, and
how the internet works. Um, and I think
they eventually stopped updating them
some years ago, but they were such
wonderful educational tools. I think
every subject should have a book that
looks quite like that. Um, more
arcanely, there's a book that we still
recommend to students unofficially or if
they really want to go pursue something
more arcane um, in C called The Hacker's
Delight, which is this wonderful
hardcover book that just has really neat
neat uh, bit trickery and low-level
hacks, low-level techniques you can use
to make your CC code especially, all the
more performant. So, there's a lot of
value in a book like that. Um, but I
think back years ago to when I was
learning some stuff in technology and
like the four dummies books was great. I
think for some time we might have
recommended one of the complete idiots
guides or something like that which
doesn't have the best semantics but the
reality is they are by design written
for a very broad accessible audience and
I think that has a lot of value as
opposed to the more traditional textbook
where you sort of have to have taken the
class in order to understand the book.
Is there an official textbook for the
Harvard CS50, not the open one? Okay, so
that one also has the
&gt;&gt; other than having access to a computer
and the internet. Um, there's no
financial requirements.
&gt;&gt; That's great. I love that idea. Last
question for you is, you know, if you
could go back to the beginning of your
career and kind of give yourself some
advice, what would you say?
&gt;&gt; Explore more. I do think I I wish I had
more jobs under my belt early on, which
I think was the result of my being
pulled back into choosing to go back
into academia. I think it would have
been healthy if I had allowed myself
maybe another year or two in between
undergrad and graduate school. Or it
probably would have worked out well if
CS50 hadn't opened up for me right as I
was finishing my PhD because then I
probably would have gone off to industry
for some amount of time. That said, not
sure I would have gotten the job if I
had wandered off campus at that point.
So, it probably worked out for the best.
But I had such fun when I was interning
interning so to speak at GitHub that it
would be fun to live more of the lives
that some of my friends in tech have
lived.
&gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, thank you so much for
your time. I really appreciate David.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, thanks so much. Hey, thank you for
watching this podcast. If you liked it
and you want to see the show grow,
please support with a comment or a like.
Also, if you have any recommendations
for people you want me to bring on,
please drop a comment. Guests like
Barbara Liskov, Mike Stonereaker, Mark
Brooker, these were all people that I
brought on because someone left a
comment. On another note, aside from the
podcast, I'm working on building the
ergonomic keyboard that I wish existed.
Here's a glance at the prototype. It's a
split keyboard, so there's two sides.
Um, this is in the case, but yeah, we
launched on Kickstarter and we hit our
goal within 8 hours of launching. I
really appreciate it if you were one of
the people who grabbed one of the early
units. Um, we're now working on the long
journey of building the tooling now and
so if you still want to pick one up,
I've left the late pledges open on
Kickstarter, so you can grab one there.
I'll put a link in the description.
Thank you again for watching the podcast
