原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MuESM7U3hFg

AI as a technical co-pilot for diligence
is actually one of the most interesting
use cases for AI as an investor right
now. If you come across a really
interesting company, you can get really
really deep within the matter of hours
and then pull in human experts to help
you to go the last mile. The mission for
our business is to accelerate innovation
in the private markets. If people had
access to better data, they could make
better decisions. Is it changing how
venture capital firms operate? They're
using tools like claw and chatbt to poke
holes in them. What am I missing?
Where's my argument weakest? Investors
for decades have not had access to the
kinds of tools that they need to really
operate their businesses in a datadriven
way. Let's talk about how AI is changing
things right now. You can go into Excel,
hook it up with Claude, hook up Claude
with standard metrics, and then ask it
to do a discounted cash flow. It'll just
build it for you. It's amazing. People
are going to be able to spend more time
on what they're truly passionate about.
&gt;&gt; CEO and co-founder,
the founding partner of
Now I'm here co-ounder
John Milis Kerazi is CEO of Standard
Metrics over 10,000 innovative companies
use this technology with hundreds of
venture firms to do their work and
figure out what's going on how
businesses are doing how to interact
with them. Jon is on the leading edge.
He's running a really high growth SAS
company becoming an AI company. That's
really interesting to hear from John
about how AI is transforming business,
how it's transforming finance, what's
going on in the innovation world.
Welcome to American Optimist. Today we
have my friend John Millis Curiosi.
John, thanks for joining us.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having me.
&gt;&gt; John, you're a co-founder and CEO of
Standard Metrics. I think it's a good
example what's happening in AI with
agents right now with all sorts of other
things. So, I want to talk about that,
but first tell us a bit about yourself.
Where'd you grow up?
&gt;&gt; I grew up in uh Brooklyn, Massachusetts,
right outside of Boston.
&gt;&gt; What were you into as a kid? What kind
of stuff? So, um, I was really into
reading fiction and then over time more
and more science fiction.
&gt;&gt; Fiction and then science fiction because
you've studied physics eventually.
&gt;&gt; Eventually. Yeah. I think science
fiction was maybe a precursor to that.
&gt;&gt; And your masters was in material
science. That's that's a different area
than you're working on now. Is there
cool stuff happening in these areas you
studied? Is that something you
eventually want to go back to?
&gt;&gt; You know, um, I don't know if I'll go
back. I loved it though and it
definitely inspired me a lot. I think as
a kid being interested in science, I got
um really into uh electric guitar in
high school and then that drew me into
electronics and circuits and I think I
freaked out my parents because I ended
up setting up like a soldering iron and
like printed circuit board etching
station in my basement. That kind of was
my first foray into getting into
engineering.
&gt;&gt; What were you trying to build in your in
your basement? I built a tube amplifier,
a vacuum tube amplifier, and I also
built um a bunch of guitar pedals to
help with like reverb and distortion and
stuff like that.
&gt;&gt; So, you're an engineering kid, a physics
nerd, went to Stanford, you started a
PhD, you dropped out of a PhD. How come?
&gt;&gt; That's right. you know, um I was really
lucky in uh my sophomore year in uh in
undergrad. I ended up at this material
science labs, Mike McGee, who's now a
professor at CU Boulder, and he was
researching, uh next generation
photovoltaics, and I had this incredible
uh PhD mentor, this guy named Eong Ding,
who uh kind of took me under his wing.
We ended up publishing a bunch of papers
together, and it was this really cool
experience.
&gt;&gt; Papers on what? Um the first one was
around uh a new manufacturing process
for a new type of solar cell we were
working on. Uh and the second was more
of a device physics paper. So it's
understanding um really the loss
mechanisms in the solar cell like when
the sun shined on the solar cell what
happened to all the electrons and holes
which are like the counterpart to
electrons and uh where were they getting
lost and what was degrading their
performance. So it was this really cool
experience and I thought gee like this
is awesome. I should keep going. think I
should uh get a PhD and and become an
academic. So that was where I was
originally kind of pointing myself and
um and then you know I had a bunch of
friends that went and worked at
startups. I went and worked at a startup
for a summer and when I got back to my
PhD I I realized that I I wanted to be
doing startups instead. It's
interesting. You know, I think this is a
really common thing in our society right
now where I think it used to be maybe 50
years ago, 100 years ago, the smartest
people who wanted to pursue the most
intellectually demanding and interesting
things would stay in academia because it
was just it just more interesting there
and there's more challenges there and
there's things you could do there. And
now I feel like
&gt;&gt; the last 30 years, especially the last
decade, startups have become so much
more compelling and there's like so many
smart people there and you could build
and solve so many problems. you actually
get like more of your you know Aristotle
would say that like like the that one of
the things that's most satisfying uh for
man is to is to you know use the highest
use of their faculty applied to to
successfully and I feel like that's now
more in startup world sometimes in
academia that that was definitely your
experience
&gt;&gt; that that that was my experience and
look there were aspects of academia that
I absolutely loved I think that there
was an element of intellectual freedom
exploration um that was incredible it's
actually something I loved about being
an investor too like post uh academia, I
spent a couple of years helping run this
early stage uh startup accelerator
called Stardex
&gt;&gt; and then became a VC and I was a VC for
six years.
&gt;&gt; You're at Spark, right?
&gt;&gt; I was at Spark and that was one of the
things that I loved about being at Spark
was this idea of being able to explore
many different things, being able to go
very very broad and then choose when you
went deep. Very different from being a
founder which I also love for for very
different.
&gt;&gt; It was interesting though because you
like that about academia but in Spark
you're able to do even more even more
things it sounds like and go even
broader, right? Yeah, I think as a as an
academic, as a researcher, um I felt
like I had a lot of freedom to explore
different areas within a certain field.
Um and part of the goal was to become,
you know, the world's expert in that
field or in a subset of that field. um
as a VC and I think this is actually
something that AI is now changing which
I'm psyched to talk about with you. Um
it's possible to have a much much
broader scope in terms of the types of
businesses that you're looking at but
then kind of gear up and start to get
really deep technically where needed.
Well, the AI thing is actually
interesting. I feel like I've always had
a little bit of advantage because I do
go pretty deep in a lot of areas. Maybe
not as deep as as the PhDs, but I go
decently deep. But now with AI, everyone
can just pretend, right? And by the way,
it's useful for me too cuz I'm like,
"Oh, how does that how does that really
nuance deep tech thing work again?" And
you just like ask it and then all of a
sudden you're like asking really good
questions. It's a little dangerous right
now.
&gt;&gt; It is. Yeah. I think like AI as a
technical co-pilot for diligence is
actually one of the most interesting use
cases for AI as an investor right now. I
don't think it's a replacement for human
experts necessarily, but it certainly is
a huge help. If you're if you come
across a really interesting company in a
field that you know a little bit about
but you're not an expert in, you can get
really really deep within the matter of
hours and then pull in kind of human
experts to help you to go the last mile.
Whereas you know 5 years ago it would
have been this kind of mad scramble kind
of calling people trying to assemble
folks that might have taken days or
weeks that can be done much faster now.
I actually one of the hacks that I
really enjoy when I have free time is to
ask the AI like what are the most
interesting and important or cited
papers or new papers or controversial
papers in a field and then explain these
to me as if I only have an undergraduate
degree like like so so dumb it down a
little bit from like the most
sophisticated PhD level of whatever it's
saying and explain how it works and you
actually can pretty quickly kind of
learn what's going on in pretty much any
area.
&gt;&gt; For sure. Yeah. I think that a as a VC
having the ability to to tailor the
output of a of a of a model to meet you
where you're at from an understanding
perspective is one of the most useful
aspects. Opening up a 10 15 page long
academic paper full of citations is
extremely intimidating.
&gt;&gt; It's so it's so annoying these papers
and it's like they purposely I think
it's like they purposely sometimes make
them so you can't understand. This how I
always felt about Emanuel K and some of
these philosophers. I'm pretty convinced
they're purposely doing it to like show
I'm not one of the initiated.
&gt;&gt; There's like a proof of there's a proof
of work there. They're there. You need
to put in the time and effort to be able
to
&gt;&gt; and they like that. They're purposely
putting the barrier in. So the AI can
remove some of that barrier. It's not
it's dangerous because you probably are
missing a few things still. Yes. So you
were helping people build things. You
were an investor and then you went on
and I was involved obviously in founding
what's called Standard Metrics now which
is this awesome really quickly growing
company. You have over 10,000 companies
now that Standard Metrics reports on for
people.
&gt;&gt; That's right. what was the idea behind
the company?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, so when I was at Spark, uh you
know, when I joined the firm in 2014,
the firm had already been fabulously
successful. It's like taking Twitter
public, Wayfair, you know, Oculus was
sold to to Facebook. Um it was a really
interesting time to join the firm
because it was a group of very technical
people
um who were really interested in
investing in cutting edge products. Um
at the same time, the firm didn't really
have core software that it was running
to operate day-to-day. And um you know
when I got to the firm I was actually
surprised by that and I went to talk to
friends in the industry and started
realizing that um very few investors in
the private markets really had access to
to great software. It was this kind of
cottage industry that had suddenly grown
a lot and become very competitive and
very global but software hadn't yet
caught up. And so I started going on
this quest. I actually ended up meeting
Ray and Shuby from Affinity as part of
this looking for software for our firm
that we could use. We ended up buying
that software and using it to try to uh
run uh and improve the way we were doing
relationship intelligence data.
&gt;&gt; So um kind of discovered firsthand and
some of the stuff that I went through
when I was there was around um you know
for example have an LP meeting coming up
how to collect data from over a hundred
companies clean all that data have it be
apples to apples use it for a bunch of
modeling exercises and reporting
exercises. When you say apples to apples
for people, it's basically you want to
show off the metrics where you can
actually compare the company's progress
to each other.
&gt;&gt; For example, let's examine revenue
growth rates across the entire
portfolio. Let's examine, you know,
gross profit margin across the entire
portfolio. And so going through those
exercises,
um even things like, hey, let's keep a
list of the companies that are pretty
low on cash to make sure that we're
jumping in to help them. Those things
were incredibly manual and timeconuming.
And those experiences um really inspired
me, kind of gave me a prepared mind. And
then when I ended up meeting you, Alex
and Danny and the team at HVC who are
also working on this problem uh kind of
gave me the inspiration to to go and
start this business and and uh try to
build a platform to automate and improve
portfolio reporting, reporting
management for the private markets.
&gt;&gt; It sounds like pretty esoteric, right?
Portfolio reporting management for
private markets, but there's there's
literally hundreds of thousands of the
smartest people trying to solve these
problems. And so you're you're kind of
supporting. How many customers do you
have now? How many people use this?
&gt;&gt; Over 150
&gt;&gt; 150 firms use
&gt;&gt; 150 firms. Yeah. And and and uh well
over 10,000 companies now on the other
side of the platform,
&gt;&gt; you know, and it's neat because Affinity
obviously we built to solve one part of
the problem. This is like a this is like
the other probably biggest part of the
problem for all these firms. And it
started in venture. You're doing private
equity now as well.
&gt;&gt; We're doing some private equity now as
well. Uh I say especially in growth
equity which is kind of an interesting
in between looks venture style in some
ways but then also they they also do
buyouts. Yeah, we see, you know, the the
mission for our business is to
accelerate innovation in the private
markets. We think that
&gt;&gt; um ultimately a lot of folks spend a lot
of time doing things that ought to be
faster and more data driven and more
automated.
&gt;&gt; And we also think that if people had
access to better data, they could make
better decisions. So portfolio companies
for example um when they report data on
SAT metrics to their investors they get
access to aggregated and anonymized
benchmarks that are relevant to
companies at their stage in their
sector.
&gt;&gt; So 10,000 companies actually in some
ways are kind of your customers as well
because they're using
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. Absolutely. Um yeah and and
and and from our perspective, if we can
help those companies to build better
relationships with their investors, have
a better dialogue with their investors
around their their numbers and also have
access to better data, we think that
they're going to uh improve their
probability of success. And then on the
other side, you know, investors for for
decades have um we think not had access
to the kinds of tools that they need to
really operate their businesses in a
datadriven way, which extends from the
you know, the back office and processes
like uh you know working through the
audit and valuations and LP reporting
all the way to hey our portfolio
company's coming in, they're raising
another round. Should we invest more?
Should we invest less? Should we
participate? A lot of my stuff right now
it's like I was with a CEO last week and
it's a new AI company that's you know a
couple years old. He's like Joe we're
not just doubling revenue this quarter
or tripling revenue this quarter and and
I always think that sounds crazy. It's
like really good but I'd be interested
to know okay well I'm sure there's like
another 50 that are doing that too. Like
how does it compare based on the stage
it's at? What are those raising rounds
out? Like so like based on the aggregate
data like what is this worth? Like I
actually don't even know y like it's all
changing so quickly even for me in the
middle of it probably as much as anyone.
Like what is that worth? And it's like
you would know a lot better than me
because you have all the data like like
how does that workflow work?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. So I think it's a couple
things. I think one is um getting all of
the data in one place and I think the
way we think about it is that firms need
a mechanism to collect and store all
their information on their portfolio as
we said before kind of in an applesto
apples format that's clean that's
auditable um that's that's kind of
traceable back to where the data came
from.
um they need a way to access that data.
We think about it as you know we have
this deep commitment to interoperability
at our company. So we think that when an
investor has their data it's their data
they should be able to use it you know
with their own AI agents that they're
bringing to the table or with software
that they're building on top of standard
metrics or in a spreadsheet or on our
platform. Um and then lastly is uh kind
of robust tools that help them to
leverage that data as well as the corpus
of data that exists in an aggregated
anonym. If
&gt;&gt; I want to ask what that's worth, I need
to use your aggregate data to see to
compare it to other things.
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. So we think that the most
powerful mechanism is if a firm has
great intelligence on their portfolio
company. They understand all the
numbers. They also have uh written uh
artifacts, notes, partner commentary,
um and they also have access to what's
going on broadly in the market and how
that's changing over time. They can take
all of that data to bear to make the
right decision for their firm. And
that's something that we we think is an
opportunity for firms ultimately to
generate more alpha not just creating
like having really smart initial
investment decisions which is obviously
mission critical but then also you know
many firms take 20 to 50% of the capital
of their fund and reserve it um to
invest in their existing portfolio
companies and we want to help them to do
that better. So let's talk about like
how AI is changing things right now for
firms. Obviously you guys are seeing
what's going on. You guys are seeing the
numbers. Uh is it changing how venture
capital firms operate like like like how
are people using AI in general?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's changing how firms operate um
all the way from the very very earliest
stages of sourcing and identifying
companies all the way through things
like you know portfolio management, LP
reporting on the other side. Um it's
actually really fun right now. I'd say
when we started standard metrics with
you guys, you know, there was in the in
the initial phases a lot of what we were
doing was evangelizing to firms like hey
you should use software like software
will help you to run your firm better
and um you know now that's still
happening but there's also a lot more
that we're learning from firms that are
experimenting a lot. So for example on
the sourcing side for the last decade
plus there have been a bunch of firms
that have built data driven sourcing
engines. They're looking at things like
GitHub stars, uh, number of employees on
LinkedIn, social media followers. We're
now seeing people use large language
models to do a lot more qualitative
research that complements that
quantitative. For example, like what's
the tone of what people are saying on
Reddit about this company? Um, or much
more nuance. Is it good if they're
attacking it? I mean, those guys are
pretty crazy.
&gt;&gt; Maybe. Maybe. Well, there's there's also
there's also a lot that people are doing
around the analysis of people. So for
example, if you take someone's GitHub
profile for their kind of public facing
work and you take their LinkedIn
profile, can you start to build a map of
the type of founder that you want to
identify and back early that matches
with your investment thesis? So we're
seeing a lot of really interesting
experimentation there. Um on the
diligent side, as we discussed before,
um you know, AI as a technical copilot
is super powerful. Another thing we're
seeing is that firms are writing
investment memos and then they're using
tools like Claude and and Chad GPT to
poke holes in them. What am I missing?
where where's my argument weakest and
then using that to help to guide the
diligence process and then feeding that
back in again. So you start to get into
an iterative mode on the portfolio
management side. I mean we have
customers that are doing wild things um
right now. For example, we have one
customer in Singapore that's using an
agent orchestration tool and it's
building this wide variety of AI agents
that interface with standard metrics,
grab data and fulfill a bunch of really
critical internal reporting workflows.
Um, for example, an LP asks a question,
an agent automatically gets triggered,
reaches into standard metrics, goes
back, composes an email, flags it for a
human, and then sends it off to the LP.
Things that you wouldn't have even
considered a few years ago are now
starting to to to get built.
&gt;&gt; It's just all automatic. Basically,
people are talking to agents more than
they realize.
&gt;&gt; Often times with humans in the loop, and
I think human in the loop has been a
really important part of our business,
particularly on the data processing side
and making sure that data is correct.
Um, and then yeah, when it comes to, you
know, the the sort of technical
diligence side, that's another area
where I think the AI is really helping
people to push deeper into into deep
tech.
&gt;&gt; Can you not teach the AI to like use the
common sense check to make sure the data
is correct? Like how like like how long
do people going to have the advantage in
that? Isn't there like a common sense
framework you can give another agent to
do to check?
&gt;&gt; I think there will be. I think there
will be. And we're certainly seeing even
just the the the the kind of core
models, the reasoning models get better
and better and better at identifying
issues. Um I think that when we think
about the future when data is really
well organized um for example the
internal AI agent that we've built which
we call our AI analyst um when the data
is really well
&gt;&gt; this is an analyst that's part of
standard metrics that a firm could use
if they have standard metrics
&gt;&gt; that's right effectively.
&gt;&gt; Do you have a name for it?
&gt;&gt; We call it AI analyst. It's not the most
creative name in the world.
&gt;&gt; I guess standard metrics there's no like
little like standy or something like you
got to get something more clever. Adapar
has Addison right? So trying to like
standard metrics just has AI analyst.
&gt;&gt; We Yeah, we decided to not
anthropomorphize the the AI person
agent. That's fair.
&gt;&gt; But we maybe we could use some branding
help there. But the um the AI analyst
when it has extremely structured context
with really clear harnessing guard
rails. It's unbelievably accurate at
pulling data across large amounts. So,
for example, you could have hundreds of
portfolio companies and ask a question
like, um,
make me a table with my top 10 fastest
growing companies where I own at least
5% that have at least $10 million in
revenue and include like these metrics
and it'll produce it with very very high
fidelity. We do want our customers to
always go and like double check the
data, but that works really well. What's
tougher is feeding in a completely
unknown document and having AI extract
data well out of
&gt;&gt; the unknown documents a lot. We do we do
that currently but we use humans in the
loop to make sure that we QA
&gt;&gt; and that's something that just like is
not is not a fully solved problem
obviously
&gt;&gt; it is not a fully solved problem yet we
think it will be in the future for now
having humans in the loop dramatically
improves
&gt;&gt; this is where a lot of kind of cutting
edge stuff's happening like one of our
companies like with real like handdrawn
landscaping documents they can get it
right even though it's like different
every time because I guess they're smart
enough to like figure out that they're
probably mean a plant given what they're
doing they probably mean this type of
plant but it's a very hard problem right
so you have to have a person check for
most of these things
&gt;&gt; by the way Chris thinks Stan is a a good
name for us to
&gt;&gt; Stan. Okay, cool. All right, good. We'll
take that into consideration.
&gt;&gt; So, internally on your team, this is
we're all living in an AI world. I think
there's like probably a few hundred
thousand of us that are part of this in
a lot of ways and obviously everyone in
society's part of it, but a lot of
people are listening and they're not
building things with AI right now. Like,
how's it different for you? Like, tell
us about this. Like, you have a team
obviously you have a lot of technical
people on your team. Like, like how is
AI changing how your company works
internally?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh, dramatically. Um, and I and it
really feels like the the the the rate
of change is increasing every day. The
the sort of the product releases, the
conversations we're having, uh, it's
super exciting and it's a lot to stay on
top of. I see the first place where we
saw it change the most on our team had
to do with data operations. As I
mentioned before, we sort of ended up
building a human team to go and work
with our customers and help them to
process our data. And the first place we
launched AI agents in our product was to
assist the the data operations team. Now
AI is doing the vast majority of the
work. So that's been a big big big
shift.
&gt;&gt; Have you cut people or people could do
new things now? Like how does that work?
&gt;&gt; Because our team's grown a lot, we
actually have continued to grow that
team, but we're just handling a much
larger volume of data.
&gt;&gt; So didn't need to grow the team as much
as you would have to do the same thing.
&gt;&gt; And also what we we tend to do with this
with this team called data solutions
team is um they're oftentimes focused a
little bit more on breaking new ground.
So we're really good at processing data
data from financial statements. We just
launched uh board deck parsing with AI
and so our humans are like much more
involved in in running that process.
&gt;&gt; So if someone sends me a board deck like
right now I have agents like helping us
with emails and stuff too of course and
like human in the loop obviously don't
worry when you hear back from me it's
not my agent but but there's but it's
helping so if the board deck comes in
that's actually smart like that there
should be like something where our agent
knows to get make sure standard metric
automatically gets it and just
automatically goes in. That'd be that'd
be a good workflow
&gt;&gt; and the data is extracted. But doing
that from a board deck is really hard,
right? From a financial statement, it
actually is quite hard because the range
of different formats and currencies and
fiscal
&gt;&gt; boards even harder in some ways, but at
least it's usually should be labeled
like
&gt;&gt; usually, but often times data is in
charts. So then you need to use AI to
start extracting approximate values out
of those charts. So there's a sort of a
different set of technical issues that
crop up.
&gt;&gt; Well, that's super annoying when it's a
chart that's not labeled perfectly or
something. You have to like do your
guess, best guess.
&gt;&gt; But so data operations is the first
area. The second big area for us is
engineering product and design and
that's been like a a
&gt;&gt; what do you guys use you guys use? What
do you use?
&gt;&gt; We use a bunch of different tools. So we
use on the engineering side you know
cursor we use cloud code. We use this
cool tool called AMP which is you know
in many ways um it's also a gentic
similar to cloud code.
&gt;&gt; Um we um what we've ended up seeing is
engineers adopt some of these tools.
Product managers and designers say hey
that looks cool. I should try this too.
And suddenly and designers and product
managers are doing very different things
than they used to. So for example, we're
redesigning kind of a core part of our
app. And one of our designers built a
fully functioning prototype using uh
cloud code.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I love how you can just vibe
code, something that actually works with
with a designer.
&gt;&gt; It's amazing. And and it's not just like
a mock that you can look at. It's
actually something you can play with and
use,
&gt;&gt; play with and get feedback on and
iterate.
&gt;&gt; You can start to identify edge cases and
corner cases that aren't being met
necessarily. Um so that's changed a lot.
veloc I say velocity has increased
overall and also the ability for people
to be creative and contribute to areas
outside of their traditional core domain
has dramatically changed particularly in
product and design being able to reach
in a little bit more contribute a small
PR uh pull request um for example for
maybe something looks visually off and
there's a little bug in the platform
that might be something a designer could
identify and fix and then engineering
needs to review at the end um versus
adding it to the stack of all the
different tasks that the engineering
team is working on uh and then of course
there's a bunch of other places you know
in in marketing. One fun thing that
we've seen is the way people find
standard metrics is also changing. Uh
&gt;&gt; interesting. So are there agents finding
it now?
&gt;&gt; Yes. Well I I don't know to what extent
it's agents but it's certainly it's
people using you know chat GPT and
Gemini and cloud like how do I do this
workflow? Oh well this thing out here
does this like our friends at Verscell
GMO was I guess this they power like
tens of millions of things and like the
vast majority of the time it's used as
infrastructure. now has an agent that
knows that it's the best thing and then
there's like a really interesting
question of like how do you put things
online to make sure the agents like
identify and know it. So are you
thinking about this?
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. Yeah. And we're I actually
vibe coded my personal website with
Versell um and um and it was it was a
ton of fun. So yeah, so we we actually
use um software that helps us it runs
hundreds of prompts per day across four
or five kind of major LLMs
and helps us to identify exactly where
standard metrics is getting mentioned
which pieces of content that are linked
to standard metrics the LLM is referring
to and helps us identify gaps to improve
the rate at which we're getting.
&gt;&gt; So you're actually creating some content
out there to make sure that they that
they can see it. We're creating content
specifically for LLM that's also human
readable and useful for humans, but it's
really it's really engineered to make
sure the LLM understand what we do.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I love it.
&gt;&gt; It's it's really helped. By the way,
&gt;&gt; it's a brave new world. We're marketing
to the computers now.
&gt;&gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; Please choose me.
&gt;&gt; Uh and then, you know, so people talked
about this SAS apocalypse was a big term
last month. uh where I mean this is
obviously this is a high growth SAS
company but it's like but also you're
moving into AI and you're an AI company
as well like should should people be
afraid of the SAS apocalypse like which
are there certain companies you're
actually you're bearish on because of it
but then like how do you think about it?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that the SAS apocalypse
like most things there is there's a
there's a lot about it that's correct
and there's certain things that are
probably overblown. Um, I think that the
thing that's the most correct about the
SAS apocalypse is getting us to question
all of our fundamental assumptions
around competitive barriers to entry for
software companies. Um, historically the
number one, you know, competitive
barrier to entry um, for software
companies has been switching costs. You
buy software, you build a bunch of
workflows on it, you get a bunch of
users using it, you get a bunch of data
into the system, and then it's very
painful and expensive to switch to
another platform.
&gt;&gt; Because of AI, that's changing. uh it's
cheaper for competitors to build
software, it's cheaper for people to v
code their own software and um it's also
easier to migrate data because of AI
agents. So I think switching costs have
gone down and so I think it's right for
the way that software companies um the
way that software companies are being
valued to change in light of that. It
turns out though that there are other
competitive barriers other than
switching costs. So for example for our
business, one of the major competitive
barriers that we have is around network
effects specifically. Well, you have
10,000 companies already. We have
companies that use our product. When we
bring on a new investor, we're talking
to a new investor. We just closed a new
customer yesterday and they had like 40%
of their companies already using
&gt;&gt; So, a new customer comes on and it's
like a ton of their companies data is
already right there.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. It's really easy for them to
onboard. It's also really nice for their
portfolio companies to be able to use a
tool with more than one investor. Um so
that's one of the KPIs that we track
internally is like how many companies
are sharing data with multiple investors
in a given month. Um so network effects
is one. Another one is data. So for us
as mentioned before we leverage
aggregated and anonymized data for the
benefit of our users. We help to offer
insights to our users from that data.
That's something that's also quite hard
to assemble and quite hard to to build.
You can't like vibe code a network. You
can't vibe code a new data set. And
people are starting to use this
obviously a lot. I know I know we use it
like how how easy is it I'm going to
push you offline on this. How easy is it
to like check what valuations might be
based on data? Like I feel like that's a
workflow we can make really easy.
&gt;&gt; So So right now our AI analyst will do
that for you if you ask it to. Um
&gt;&gt; I feel like you should like make this
like a thing that just automatically
like helps you in different ways.
&gt;&gt; We we we had a we had a conversation
with a with an auditor recently about
this too that was really excited about
it. I think that there's going to be a
lot of opportunity for um for innovation
in in automation around valuations
leveraging AI plus benchmarks plus
proprietary company data as well as
public market comps and other
&gt;&gt; 100% and I feel like this is like super
controversial because everyone gets
pissed if you like give them the
valuation they don't want. So you
probably have to have multiple models
like under this framework is this under
this framework is this. But it' be
really nice just to have a starting
point you know.
&gt;&gt; Agreed. you need multiple models and you
also need auditability and traceability.
Like so I think that's actually an
example where having like a more
opinionated deeper harness for the agent
is really helpful. There's some cases
where Claude's Claude's harness that
it's built is so good that can just do a
lot of stuff out of the box. Like one
thing that we we published recently was
&gt;&gt; um you can go into Excel, hook it up
with Claude, hook up Claude with
standard metrics and then ask it to do a
discounted cash flow for a portfolio
company and it'll just build it for you.
It's amazing
&gt;&gt; which is of course by the way has
nothing to do with valuation adventure
these days
&gt;&gt; that that may be the case
&gt;&gt; in theory it might in five or 10 years
in the future
&gt;&gt; that's right but but it but but for
something like valuations you could
imagine building like much more
opinionated um you know workforce
&gt;&gt; like Joe is involved plus five you know
this other person this like person's
involved minus one
&gt;&gt; I think it's I think it's exciting
though I mean one of the things that
we're I don't know if your other
portfolio com I actually be curious uh
if there's any other examples but one of
the things that we're starting to see is
that our product development And we're
also like discovering a lot of
capabilities in our product that we
didn't know our product was capable of.
&gt;&gt; Interesting.
&gt;&gt; Uh because
&gt;&gt; AI is pretty cool that way, huh?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Like we're like, "Oh, we should
try to do this and see if this works."
And it then it does work and then we
tell our customers about it and they
start using it.
&gt;&gt; There's probably like a lot more product
marketing that can exist in AI world
that doesn't right now. I'm seeing from
all my companies cuz there are just like
all these capabilities like all these
things and then no one even knows.
&gt;&gt; Totally. We've and we and we're we're
we're like much more actively investing
there. there. We're doing a lot more
visual content for our users where we
just we created a um uh I don't know how
much uh like you guys other companies
are using MCP sort of protocol that
exists.
&gt;&gt; Explain that to our listeners.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, and I think of MCP effectively
as a protocol that allows AI like large
language models or agents to to really
effectively use an API. So, for standard
metrics for example, we have a really
robust public API. We also have an MCP
and so if you want to hook up standard
metrics to a large language model, it
can figure out how to use our product
really well.
&gt;&gt; And you're just letting anyone plug in?
You got to be careful that someone's
just competing with you is going to try
to plug in and just like steal stuff.
&gt;&gt; So So yeah, so obviously the data
privacy and security side is critical
and making sure all of that works really
well. There's a um there's an
opportunity with MCP for large language
models to be able to go and um you can
get super creative with how you use
products. You can also start to combine
different products together. Is it model
context protocol?
&gt;&gt; Model context protocol.
&gt;&gt; I should have looked that up. But but
which is by the way very funny because
in the in the past APIs are like this
super API is the operation programming
interface. Super program super like
rigid.
&gt;&gt; It's like a program and it's defined
exactly. You submit this and you get
this and it works this exact way. It's
it's a programming language. Whereas
model context protocol is like models
are funny. It's like you just talk to
them. It's just it just explains what's
going on here and what and they look at
it and they use that to kind of figure
it out which is I'll give you the
funnest thing for me.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So like so we so we had so we when
we started exploring this we had this
hypothesis that we could do a bunch of
really crazy interesting new workflows.
One of them was okay what if we hook up
with notion
uh calendar and standard metrics and
then you ask a question it's probably
relevant to you. What are all of my
upcoming board meetings over the next
month? Create a notion page for each of
them. Go into standard metrics pull all
the latest data and build me a like
quick summary and an agenda for each of
those board meetings. And it'll go and
it'll understand what a board meeting
is. It'll go into calendar. It'll look
at your calendar. It'll pick out, okay,
these are the six board meetings coming
up over the next month. It'll go create
those notion pages. It'll grab the data
and it'll build those reports. Now, that
might need to be tweaked by someone on
on your team or by you to get
&gt;&gt; This would save my chief of staff a lot
of time.
&gt;&gt; It could save your chief of staff hours
through a single prompt. Um, so the
ability to be creative like that, I
think, is one of the really new fun
things about building software.
&gt;&gt; And how quickly is everything getting
better? Like just give us a sense of
this. Like there's some metric where
like Claude now has like the agents are
able to work uh twice as long without
interference every 3 months which is
kind of insane if you think about it cuz
eventually they're going to be able to
work forever and I guess they're also
getting faster. Like what does this mean
like like over the next year? How does
your business change with this?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. Yeah, there there is
that metric um that's sort of yeah the
it's like what there's there's a task um
that has a 50% chance of successful
completion. How long does that task look
like for a given model? I think Claude
is now at like 20 hours or something
like that and it was at like you know 1
hour um a year ago. Yeah, it's pretty
remarkable. I think for us one of the
biggest areas where we see the models
getting better improving our business
has to do with the extraction of more
and more and more structured data from a
longer and longer tale of different
types of written communications. you're
able to bring everything together much
&gt;&gt; everything together centralizing
everything and giving it access to the
AI analyst as context is is actually
relatively straightforward now because
of the size of the context windows uh
how much data the the model can kind of
be fed um what's trickier is the
extraction of of structured trustworthy
data from that so that's going to be an
area where we think there'll be continue
to be rapid improvement um and then we
also think that the tooling around
everything is going to get better and
better it's going to be easier to
orchestrate work.
&gt;&gt; Some of that orchestration will happen
within applications like ours and some
of it will happen outside of application
like ours and we'll reach into these
apps um as a key data interface. Some
people are referring to this as like a
headless uh model. And I think it's
really important for companies to to to
be thinking and building with that in
mind and making sure that if their users
are extremely sophisticated with how
they're thinking about building their
own internal AI agents that your company
can be a partner for them and not be
sort of in a in a combative uh position.
&gt;&gt; Well, sounds like work's going to get a
lot more efficient and effective. You
know, it's like a dangerous supposition.
you know, his canes when he saw all the
productivity and wealth coming over the
next I guess it was 90 years ago now. He
thought we would just only work 10 hours
a week because we'd be so wealthy we
wouldn't need to work and and it's like
it seems even more so that way right
now. Although I guess I guess there's
like reasons why people might want to
work harder and still make tens of
millions of dollars and but it's just it
just seems like you're not going to need
to be doing as much work to get as much
done, right?
&gt;&gt; Maybe. Yeah. It feels like the
opportunity cost of not working is so
large right now though cuz there's so
much happening.
&gt;&gt; That's that's the other side of you.
With a little bit of with a little bit
of time, you can create so much. The
opportunity cost is like, "Oh, you
should actually work more, which
actually is my life. I'm obviously
working really hard because every little
bit of time I could do something to help
cure a disease or help fix this thing
that's broken over here." And so, so
every little bit of time at work, you're
kind of compelled to work more because
you get so much done. Huh.
&gt;&gt; For sure. I think the other side of it,
something that gives me like a lot of
excitement about the future is I do
think that the infrastructure around
running a business, a lot of the
infrastructure that's almost frustrating
and annoying to deal with, things that
most small business owners don't want to
spend time on. Um, they want it to be
done right. Uh, but think like, you
know, accounting or setting up a website
or um, you know, uh, customer support
queries that are coming in.
&gt;&gt; It just happens now. You can make
&gt;&gt; those things can just happen now. So, so
I think what we're seeing now, which is
really exciting, is this explosion of
small businesses getting started. And I
think that people are going to be able
to spend more time on what they're truly
passionate about, probably spend more
time on things that directly interface
with other humans, whether it's
producing products for them or working
with them or helping them with something
versus, you know, jobs that were more
about paper pushing um that are going to
become more automated. So, that is
something that gives me a sense of
excitement about the future.
&gt;&gt; I love it. Well, that's a very
optimistic case to the future. It pushes
back against some of the cynicism we're
seeing from others. John, thank you for
joining us.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having me.
