原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=soVSK6tzAEs

If you look at the Americas, you find
that the US is the largest economy in
the world. It has 300 what 30 million
people. If you look at Latin America,
we're talking about 650 million people,
third largest economic block. We have
engineering talent, GPUs. We have
abundant energy, commodities,
biodiversity. It's so hard to do
business there. The Brazil cost, some
people say it's 10, 20%, you're talking
about some of the most complex
regulatory frameworks that exist in the
planet. I believe that if you build a
system that allows companies to deal
with all of this complexity, companies
are going to be able to do things that
were unheard of before.
We're here today with Seas, a serial
entrepreneur from Latin America. In
2015, Seas started a company called
Rappy, who became the first uh delivery
app in Latin America and the first super
app and later became the first Colombian
unicorn. Um, after nearly a decade of
scaling that business into nine
countries, 250 cities, so has stepped
away to start taco.
&gt;&gt; And we're going to talk today about
Savas's background growing up in
Colombia and traveling the world before
becoming an entrepreneur, building rap
and taco, and how now is the moment that
we're going to start to see more global
AI winners coming out of Latin America.
Seas, welcome to A6Z show.
&gt;&gt; Happy to be here. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; So, Seas, uh, you grew up in Kali,
Colombia. Both of your parents were
entrepreneurs.
You want to tell us a little bit more
about your journey having grown up in in
Cali and how that shaped you and into
the business person that you're now.
Mother very very entrepreneurial. Um
what I saw in her was the intersection
of of culture and business. My mother
ended up founding a um can think of as a
cir do sole blended with salsa. Um, Cali
was always a very culturally rich city,
especially around music.
&gt;&gt; So, I think that's that's that's very
very pretty much part of who we are. Um,
on on the other hand, my dad was um
also very entrepreneurial uh uh
character, more of the type of starting
one thing, moving on to the next with
maybe maybe little little little
structure. So, I was always exposed to
that. um have lots of memories of of um
just spending time with them as they
were building their companies or or or
pursuing any any business. My parents
got divorced when I was five. So I grew
up in a very independent way. So just
imagine you go to one's house, you go to
the other, very flexible, not a not a a
very rigid uh structure. And and I think
um what I saw was a deeply creative
culture. um we kind of have to because
we also grew with a lot of uh um tough
circumstances around us. Um it's not
necessarily the most affluent place. So
So I think the the way to get ahead is
just by the application of resilience,
creativity, uh and being able to do
things that that the common person is
maybe not pursuing. So, so that was
pretty much my my my upbringing and then
um I ended up doing something that
changed my life a lot and and and and is
is is the beginning of of a path of
becoming an immigrant. Um and and I I
went to to Barcelona when I was 17 18
years old. Um that was a um a big change
and and at the same time was it was it
was
&gt;&gt; And what led you to Barcelona?
&gt;&gt; My father was living in Europe at the
time and I was traveling often even when
I was in in in high school. So um my dad
was the type of person that would say in
the middle of school like hey we're
going for a trip. It's like okay where
are we going? I don't know. we're going
to remember a trip to Rio in in Brazil.
I was like, "Dad, but I have classes."
And he's like, "Yeah, but you're going
to learn more with me than in a
classroom." So, so that was quite
common. And and there were trips to
Europe and we ended up pursuing
something that wasn't that common at the
time. Like I would say most of my my my
friends end up staying or others the few
that left came to the US. So going to
Europe wasn't necessarily like a like a
thing. Um, but for me it was very
interesting also because it was a it was
a decent school but more than that I
think what Europe gives you is access to
to the world because
um you're broke, you have little little
money but you always have €50 to get on
a plane and just go to Berlin for
weekend or Paris or stumble or whatever.
And that's just a great way I think to
to to learn. So, so that was that was
very very important. I think my life as
a as a as a person of the world started
started then.
Awesome. And um you know after Spain you
decided to come to arguably the greatest
city in the world, New York City where
we are now. But um you want to talk a
little bit about that experience coming
to New York and you know after New York
you decided to go back to Latin America
and start a company which is not usually
like the common path and now you have
started two companies in Latin America.
So you know we have this thesis that
like having exposure to the rest of of
the world obviously makes you a great
entrepreneur.
you want to expand a little bit on that
as well and how that shaped you into
building the companies that you're
building now in Latin America.
&gt;&gt; There's more to the story. So, so I'm
going to have to to to maybe expand on
the on the first chapters because as as
as I arrived to Barcelona, um two years
in I lost my father and and that was a
um quite the the crucible moment for me
because not only you're dealing with the
the personal um drama and the family
drama that that entails, but also you
have to stand up for yourself and and it
was a moment where we just didn't have
the money to just continue to pursue
what I was doing. And I ended up going
to Madrid because uh the only thing that
I could afford was public school and I
didn't want to do public school in
Barcelona because I didn't want to do
classes in Catalan. So I grabbed my
bags, I went to Madrid, landed in Madrid
and this was in the middle as I was
dealing with my father's passing. Um so
it was a pretty pretty tough moment. And
as soon as I I landed in Madrid, I
started what I would say is my first
company. I was like 20. Um, and I I I I
call it the the the the Spotify without
the internet because uh in essence what
I did is it was the you guys remember
the 10,00 songs in your pocket. Oh yeah.
You know, classic one of the best
marketing slogans ever. And when I saw
that, I always love music, but when I
saw that, I said, well, like the
consumption of music just fundamentally
changed. It's not going to be physical
devices any longer. It's going to be
databases.
So my great idea was I'm going to get my
hands on as many of these hypos as
possible and I'm just going to fill them
with tailored databases depending on the
business. So you can be a bar, you can
be a restaurant, you can be a business,
you can be an individual
&gt;&gt; and I would basically mark up the price
of the [laughter] of the of the iPod. So
I have like a like a team of five
people. Imagine a room with five or
seven computers, all of them connected
to the internet. Napster equivalents and
just like download the downloading music
and and and sending it to to to people.
So, um that was the way that I was able
to stay in Madrid uh with that small
business. Um when I when I finished
school, the world was uh a bit upside
down because it was the great financial
crisis and I didn't want to stay in in
Spain. I wanted to be in a place that
was more dynamic. So, where else to come
than New York? Uh but as all great
entrepreneurs do, you come with a
complete misunderstanding of the
challenges and the risks and and how
hard it's going to be which is one of
the the blessings of being a optimistic
founder and I landed in New York in in
winter 2009 uh with very little savings.
Um but it it then started five six
amazing years in in New York where I
continued to build companies. I met my
my my wife found my first investors
uh build a very global company um and
that global company um what we were
doing is just enabling supermarkets to
sell groceries. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; One of my clients was Reliance
Industries in India and I ended up
spending on and off like roughly 5 to 6
months in in in Mumbai
and and that for me was very
inspirational because I got to see how
technology could be applied in large
emerging markets and I I heard things
that I had never heard before which was
listen we're going to connect a billion
people to the internet through
smartphones. We're going to bypass the
cable. We're gonna just we're gonna
bypass the traditional internet stack.
we're going to go directly to mobile.
Um, and that was so inspirational for me
because I saw how it was being built. I
saw how they were bringing 757
planes full of smartphones from Korea
and China because there were no
smartphones in in India. So, I think
that that allowed me to see the
possibilities of WPPY and I think that's
when I started to to think well what
could happen if we apply technology to
the emerging world. So then we start
going more into the into the into the
Rappy chapter.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And so anybody in Latin America
had like 100% name recognition has heard
of Rappy. But in case we have any
listeners not aware of WPY, can you
describe what is the company and maybe a
sense of the scale that it's at now?
&gt;&gt; It's the operating system for local
commerce across Latin America.
uh operating across nine cities uh sorry
nine countries, 300 cities.
Um a product that allows you to have
groceries,
restaurants, liquors delivered to you in
minutes, in some cases under 10 minutes.
Um because we do picking from
restaurants, we do picking from
groceries, but we also do our own
delivery. Um it's one of the most uh
special stories of resilience and
entrepreneurship that has come from from
the region. Um it's been the place where
more than 100 companies, 150 companies
have been founded by fellow RAPI alumni.
Um it's a company that has impacted the
life of the lives of millions of people
uh that are thanks to Rappy earning
multiples of their minimum wage in a
flexible way. Um it's a company that um
also has a very mature uh operating
system to be able to to to run a
business that is incredibly hard and
complex. Uh it's multi-vertical, it's
low margin, it's competitive. So that
basically made us like very battleh
hardened operators. Um it's a company
that has a very very special group of
people and talents uh uh working on in
the company. some of them coming from
the best companies in the world. Um, a
company that is is still founder led
today by by my two co-ounders, Philipe,
Philipe and Simon, who who are leading
the company with incredible love for the
mission and the impact and and and it's
amazing to see them operate and I'm
still super close. I'm just helping in a
in a in a different in a different way.
I left the company around a year ago,
&gt;&gt; of course. Um, and I think it would be
it'd be interesting actually to talk a
little bit about the founding story of
Rappy, especially because it relates
relates a little bit to how you're
navigating what you're doing now. But
Rappy, I think, was iteration three. You
had you had two companies before. And
one of the things we often talk about is
how sometimes the big idea ends up being
an infrastructure problem of an idea
before. And in this case, the problem
was logistics. like you've now created
like a very complex logistics business
but maybe talk a little bit about the
the discovery and how you guys landed on
the idea.
&gt;&gt; Simona and I uh had built a previous
company that had brought me to to India
and and that company was uh in essence
um a mobile experience integrated with a
supermarkets or a retailers order
management system. So we we started
solving the problem from a more
customerf facing experience, but we
didn't want to do the fulfillment piece.
We didn't want to touch the the moving
of the atoms.
Maybe two years in into building that
company, we started realizing that if we
wanted to really change the customer
experience and offer something that was
orders of magnitude better,
&gt;&gt; we needed to own the whole uh operation.
We needed to have the mobile experience,
the front end, the payments, the fraud,
and especially the logistics
and and and and the connection with the
local content or or or inventory. And
and I think RPI RPI was born of um the
possibilities of creating a novel
experience,
&gt;&gt; but it was also born out of frustration
because we were seeing these large
incumbents that just couldn't think away
from bringing people to their brick and
mort mortar stores and and it was just
very hard to change that. So, so Rap's
first delivery was around October of
2015.
We initially launched uh one market
which was Bogotaa in Colombia.
Maybe two three months in we went to
Mexico and that was the the classic
investor telling you you shouldn't go
international too early.
&gt;&gt; Yep. We didn't listen at all to that and
and in partly we didn't listen to
because I think we wanted to build an
important company and and we understood
that
being in the right markets mattered and
being in the markets that had scaled
matter. So, so we did something that was
probably not the most common thing to do
and and then um it was a um um
effort of understanding what is the
operating system of a company like this.
How do you at the at at its core is a is
a optimization problem where you need to
have perfect balancing of customers,
couers, merchants in every micro zone
and you almost kind of operate these
microones in a very independent way
because otherwise the the the the
flywheel breaks. If you don't have
enough couriers or you have a lot of
customers, the experience is not great.
you have a lot of curans and not not
enough customers, not great for the for
the couriers. So, so so
we we went in that direction and and and
we made sure that we were um pretty much
uh obsessed with with working with
builders, working with founder profiles,
um being very very close to the
audiences. Uh we have a lot of a lot of
stories of of of just how hard it is to
build this this company in every city in
every country.
&gt;&gt; What do you think like this would be I
think a very complicated business to
build anywhere. Was there anything about
being in Latin America specifically or
you know Brazil or Mexico or Colombia
that like specifically made it more
challenging or different?
&gt;&gt; Where do we start? I mean there there's
there's just no existing stack that you
can build upon. There's no as a service.
&gt;&gt; No, there's lots as a service if
nothing. So, so [laughter]
you as a service.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, so I mean we could argue that
that Amazon utilized a lot of FedExes
and USPS infrastructure, right? We we
didn't have that. So, so it applies to
logistics. Um
&gt;&gt; payments was another one. Um there's a
fairly it's depends on the market, some
markets more than others, but payments
are still cash driven. So we had to
build our our capa our capabilities to
actually accept cash, right? Or or
fraud, right? Like you can work with any
fraud company, all of a sudden you see
these weird behaviors and and and and
they were like just not being able to
spot it. So we had to build our own
fraud uh uh systems and on and on and on
and on, you know. So, so on on in
perspective, I think doing the hard
things and and and owning as much as
possible of of of of your operation and
going vertical,
&gt;&gt; it's hard, but it's also very
defensible, you know. So, so it's it's
it's hard to hard to compete against
that. It allows you to provide much
better customer experiences, but it also
it also makes it really really hard for
someone else to do. So, so I think
durability and defensibility are two
things that I think constantly about. We
can we can expand on that, but but but
it has a it has a silver silver lining.
And if you look today, RAP is the only
independent founder company in this
category in the region and and we're
talking about the third largest economic
block in the world and and that's a I
think that's a a special special place
to be. to seas. Um you lefty about a
year ago um and then you started a
second company uh in the region and you
know you want to talk us a little bit
more about this company um what does the
company does and why did you pick this
this problem specifically?
Taco. Um, what we're building is um an
intelligence layer for companies to run
their workforce operations.
What that means is that we build um
agents that understand all of the labor
regulation
and we build applications to be able to
support all of the operations that are
related to just running running and
managing people. Um, I'll give you I'll
give you examples of what that means.
So, we have uh we build this uh uh
product. We're I think the only company
in the world that has built uh a
complete data set that has all of the
corpus of labor of Brazil in the world.
&gt;&gt; May maybe give us a a sense of for the
non-Brazilians of just the complexity of
&gt;&gt; Yeah. to put it to put it in to put it
in context uh uh some people say that
the the the Brazil cost is a fraction of
their GDP. What that means is that some
people say it's 10 20%. I I I don't know
I don't know exactly of the total GDP of
the country but that means is that it's
so hard to do business there. Um that it
partially explains why um you have a
country with incredible talent, an
incredible stack, a super
forwardthinking regulatory body. uh very
talented people that have built
companies, but at the same time, you see
an economy that's still sluggish and
doesn't grow. And if you bring that
closer to the space where Taco operates,
that's we're talking about taxes and
labor, um you easily go into the 20 $30
billion of of of cost. And and and
that's because you're talking about some
of the most complex regulatory
frameworks that exist in the planet.
Brazil is definitely top top three. Uh
some people say it's the most complex
country in the world. And and if you
start understanding what this means on
labor, you have tens of regulatory
frameworks from the constitution to
what's um decided by a judge at a at a
regional level that
contradict each other that change often
um and that makes it incredibly hard for
companies to to operate there today.
It's a very hostile environment for
businesses. So I believe that if you
build a a system that allows companies
to deal with all of this complexity, you
are completely changing what companies
can do. Not by a 10 20 30% I'm going to
make you better. No, companies are going
to be able to do things that were
unheard of before. And I think now AI
allows you to just take over a lot of
the work that is in essence low value
services that are provided by a lot of a
lot of people that are living from this
the say not of complexity.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So so we took on on on something that
was quite uh complex. We took on on
something that I find it fascinating
because I think complexity and doing
things that are hard are great places to
find durability and defensibility.
And what that means is that all of these
all of these data sets now exist within
our system.
&gt;&gt; Um we we built the the yeah it's it's
the richest the only data set that
exists.
&gt;&gt; Taken the regulation turned it into code
&gt;&gt; updating it all the time. Making sure
you have the data pipelines making sure
that you build a proper taxonomy to
understand how the laws interact with
each other. um making sure that uh this
is easily readable by by by agents. So
we have one product that is called auto
and auto in essence is for those that
understand and think of it as open
evidence for but for labor right auto
not only understands any law with
benchmarks that are much better than
your general LLM
um but it also helps you as a company
understand if you're staying compliant
right and and and staying compliant is
is is is incredibly important because if
you don't you're talking about people's
money you're talking about additional
payments, you're talking about fines.
So, so, so that product is is one of
them. We also we also build uh a system
of agents that basically allow companies
to recruit, to on board, to pay, to send
all of the events to government, um to
um integrate with your accounting
system, to let go of an employee. Um and
all of this is basically agents that are
taking over the work uh that is today
being done in a in a very low low low
quality way. So so our customers are
mediumsized companies but also some of
the largest companies in in in Brazil.
&gt;&gt; Talk to us a little bit. I think you
know one of the things is very
differentiated about you is that it's
almost as if you think about talent
first and you know everything else
second. you you focus about being
surrounded with the best people and
we've seen this in Brazil how you
recruit people in Brazil but now
recently you know Taco has opened uh
hacker house in in Silicon Valley and I
think that that's pretty innovative for
the region you don't see a lot of
companies that like think that way and
make the effort to kind of build their
brand to recruit the best people in
Silicon Valley to to work for it so
maybe you want to expand a little bit
about how you think about talent And I
know that you have great anecdotes on on
recruiting people. So it'll be great for
the founders in the audience too to
understand what it takes. You recruited
a lot of people from Door Dash for for
WPY and I think that a lot of those
learnings show in Taco now, but just
curious yeah if you can share a little
bit more about how you think about
talent.
I I think it comes from my my personal
experience also as a as a as an
immigrant and having built in in Europe
or having lived and built in New York. I
think when when when you see those
things, you start um
understanding that great comes from
different places, but you stop um
thinking that what is great is is in
essence what you know because you come
from a specific place, right? You're not
you're not necessarily uh um thinking
about uh well um this is locally great.
No, you immediately go to globally great
because that's what it's take what it
takes.
So I've always been very very interested
about uh identifying who these people
are and very interested in identifying
talent that is overlooked that is
probably not the the the the
standard uh looking person. Um, I
interview in a in a in a particular way.
Uh, maybe some people do it, but mine is
is really trying to understand people's
childhoods, origins, mommy and daddy
stories, uh, resilience stories,
hardship stories. Um, and I go very
early. I go to childhood. I go to
teenage years. I think there's just a
lot of signal by understanding a person.
And I also think that when you're hiring
really smart people, they are they're
very good at selling themselves and and
very good at saying all the right things
that you want to hear. So, um I discount
that a little bit more and I I try to
focus on on on the person. Um I have
this little rubric that every time that
I'm interviewing or or or looking for
candidates, it looks like a like a like
a diamond and I always have it in my
head. So, it's a diamond with four
corners. So, in in in in one corner you
have IQ obvious. one one smart people on
another corner we have EQ which is the
emotional emotional intelligence sure
very important the other ones are a
little bit different so so one is AQ
which is the adversity quotient or
resilience
&gt;&gt; so I spend a lot of time evaluating for
that um then you go to the last corner
which is energy so some people call it
agency but but but at the end you want
people that are enthusiastic with
solving problems that are just able to
take things all the way to the end. Um
that like to overcome challenges and
problems. I think that requires a lot of
energy. And then at the center there's a
heart and I like to work with people
that have high integrity, high values
and and and I think yeah high trust. So
so I always I always do this and that
you take the global part and you take
this this this assessment of of of
talent. I think uh um if if if if if you
look at building a global company um
which is is always my my aspiration you
need to have people that are globally
great. So um in the case of of of Taco
for example uh Taco has incredible
talent. It's a highly d talent dense
company very very very profound on
engineering. Um, and what we started
realizing is that the team was
incredibly talented, but we also wanted
to connect them with what's the cutting
edge of how to apply artificial
intelligence for real.
&gt;&gt; So, we we have this connection to the
US, more concretely, San Francisco, and
and we basically have um it's a house
where our engineers spend a lot of time.
We've recruited people in San Francisco
as well. And and I think it's been
fascinating to see how they they learn.
And I initially started seeing this at
at WPPY where um at one moment I was
probably investing 70 80% of my time on
on talent. And I remember very clearly
at WPPY uh maybe around 2020
21 like we were riding the the the COVID
wave. It was wild like all of this
demand that came forward
but it was just so hard to operate the
company and I remember sitting in a
table and looking around our team and
it's like these guys are incredible,
incredibly talented, hardworking but the
complexity is just insane.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So I want to think about who are
the best people in the world doing these
companies and and I I mean I think Door
Dash is a company that I that I deeply
admire and I think it's one of the best
run companies in the US and in the
world. So I started meeting people there
and I was incredibly impressed. Um
little did I know that the consequence
of that was like probably around 25
people from from Florida that [laughter]
started working
&gt;&gt; impressed and relentless if I remember
something. Yeah.
they ended up working at at RPY and and
they were incredibly impactful in the
company with our team, right? I think
our team was able to were able to take
this a lot of these lessons and also
execute at par with this with this with
these individuals and that required a
lot of a lot of very intense uh
recruiting. I there's not a lot of
presidents of companies in this part of
the world that are able to bring some of
the best talent from some of the best
companies in the world.
&gt;&gt; Well, which is maybe one more question
on that. Um cuz I know you're still very
focused on recruiting now for Taco. Both
at RPI and at Taco, there's a lot of
future founders. Is it just, you know,
future founders or people who want to
start their own companies mapped to your
rubric or is that another sort of lens
that you're you're looking for
especially attractive place?
&gt;&gt; If a candidate comes to me and says, I
want to start a company, I love it. And
and I I took that deal all day long. I
it was basically something like this.
Look, I want to be an entrepreneur. I
want to start a company. I say amazing.
Give me 3, four years of your life.
We're going to give you a lot of uh
learnings, lessons. You're going to make
mistakes with other people's money. It's
going to be a great way for you to learn
how to be an entrepreneur. And and I
think if if I look at Rapid for example,
uh because the business was so hard, and
I thought about this, I think I think
PayPal is a is a great example. It's a
hard business, right? And I think that's
why you get so many of these like
incredibly talented entrepreneurs,
right? People being one of the probably
the be the best group of entrepreneurs
that ever has ever existed.
And and these folks were just touching
real things. I mean, high stakes like
budgets, recruiting, firing, operations,
commercial, product engineering,
&gt;&gt; now payroll.
&gt;&gt; No, no, no, no, no, no payroll and and
and tough stuff. So, so we we I love
that and and and I think those those
type of profiles uh I I I love working
with them and and giving them as much of
learnings that I can. I have to say also
that I I I learn a lot from them too.
like something that we've we've done
with Gabe and and Gabe and I have been
on quite quite a few crazy trips
together and and I I take every
introduction that Gave sent sends my way
um and some of them are just very young
uh potential founders and
maybe they learn a few things from them
but I sure learn a lot from them. So I
think over the last years I've spent
especially if the last four years I
spent a lot of time just being a student
again. Uh I I find that
&gt;&gt; the best trip so far it has to be the
North Pole.
&gt;&gt; If you tell me that we were going to be
doing Arctic skiing stalking a hurricane
in the North Pole and then doing Nordic
skiing, I wouldn't have I wouldn't have
believed it. But we we we survived it.
&gt;&gt; Well, awesome. So as maybe closing the
chapter a little bit about Taco and then
we can jump a little bit more into the
opportunity of AI in Brazil and like
what what would it take for Latin
America to produce not only great local
companies but like global winners. Um
but maybe tell us a little bit what what
what is coming up next with Taco like
what what is happening in the next 12 to
24 months. Taco today has in in in
essence four um products with four um
ICPS
and
it's the the labor um product where you
basically you can understand
um like no one can the the law and
untangle this super complex system that
product is being used by end customers
by midsize companies but also by
enterprise companies. Then we have a um
a product which is a bunch of agents
that are doing end-to-end work for
companies. So from recruiting to on
boarding to paying, processing payroll,
sending the payments, doing all of the
integrations with accounting, all of the
integrations with the government uh for
midsize companies. We we built another
product which is um a voice recruiting
agent which is
again thinking about about defensibility
and doing things in the right way. Um
this voice is also trained on Brazilian
regulation. So it's not your just your
your voice agent but we take all of the
operating principles of the company the
typical interviews. Then that agent
creates the script of the questions that
are going to be asked and we we ensure
that the the the agent stays compliant
with AI laws and non-discrimination laws
that are incredibly important in Brazil.
Again, you don't just do well, you get
sued, right? So, so, so it's it's
incredibly incredibly important to to to
do it well. This product is typically
used by large companies in the tens of
thousands of of employees that have a
lot of churn and they need to hire a lot
of people. And then the fourth product
is an enterprise motion where we're
going to the largest organizations and
we're solving some of their hardest
problems. Um and and we're starting with
the people related problems because we
believe that if you crack that and you
understand a people and you build a
people database that is properly
constructed then you can have these
people running whatever type of agent
and we build our own agent OS and and
and and we can build the agent select
the tools select the model do the
evolves all of the telemetry who is
using it who's not using it the the the
whole the whole thing. So I think those
those four four big pillars are are are
what we're going to be focused on for
for for the year. And I think um the
application of AI in enterprise requires
this. It's it's I I I wish that we
stop talking about features, stop
talking about models, stop talking about
agentic this, copilot that,
um co-friendi this. And I think we
should be talking about in essence what
the work that the that the agent is
doing with a clear indication of of the
outcome. And we speak a lot about this
at at Taco like you should be able to
explain it in layman terms to anyone
without using AI. Don't talk about AI.
Don't talk about models. Talk about what
the the agent is going to be doing for
the company in terms of work. And we
also talk a lot about taco in in in in
terms of um building things in an inside
out way. What I mean by that is there's
this um museum in Paris which is the
central Pompidu and it's it's a building
that is completely hated by all
Parisians. They hate it. I I don't hate
it, but I remember the first time that I
saw it, I was very impressed with this
building because it's a building that is
inside out. It's it's it's the opposite
of other buildings. So So So you see the
pipes, you see the stairs, you see the
air vents, you see the AC, and each of
them has a individual color, right? I
don't remember if red red is for uh
elevators and stairs and transportation.
I don't remember exactly what it is, but
I love that concept because I think if
you're going to build an agent, you
should be able to see it and to
understand it. This is a problem. A lot
of these things are black boxy.
Enterprises don't get it. But if you're
able to see it and you say, "Look, an
agent is a system of software at this
moment. It's calling this tool. It's
using this model. It's working on this
data set. This is this is where it's at
at the moment." And you see the
progress. I think that's an incredible
important unlock to be able to apply
this in enterprises. So I think tackle
has a critical role in making sure that
companies don't stay behind in terms of
AI like they all get it. They all
understand that they need to use AI but
then you you try to bring it down and
they are still very much behind. It is a
perfect segue to be um I'll say AI
opportunity writ large in Latam and one
of the things we talk about often like
it is probably the most exciting time to
be building like definitely since we've
been in technology and the AI
opportunity anywhere is very large
because you're not only tackling the
software market you're now tackling the
software and the labor market and if you
go to LATAM one thing I think many
people there don't realize is software
for a variety of reasons never really
took off in a lot of sectors and in a
huge way it was just labor was cheaper
like I remember like trying like hey you
should buy my fraud software I was like
why would I do that I've got 200 people
that cost less over there and so I think
the opportunity now is you're not
replacing sort of software and labor
like there's all of these industries
that are you know arguably 15 20 years
behind
um but just to say a bit provocatively
if you look at the large AI companies
that have been scaling they haven't yet
come out of LATAM and so do you think is
it just a matter of time does something
else have to change obviously you know
you're you're building one but like what
is it that for the the region to really
take advantage given that they skipped
the last generation and so this
opportunity is twice as big if not more
&gt;&gt; what you say about about labor is so
true I I call it has which is humans as
a service
&gt;&gt; and and and that cuz that that that was
the that was that was always an issue
and then the issue is even worse because
a lot of these SAS are incredibly poor
and then it's a bunch of screens with
humans with hasses running running the
products. It's just terrible. [gasps]
It's it's also it's also true what you
say that the markets are um very large
and and if you look at the economies of
Latin America, it's they're very
serviceoriented and generally they're
not high value added services. These are
low quality services that are being
provided and and I think there is a lot
that AI can do to go after those big
markets. So previously we were talking
about the size of the problems of uh
Brazilian complexity for taxes and
labor.
&gt;&gt; That's a classic example. I mean when
when we think about those the size of
those problems those are opportunities
for companies that are taking over. Um,
so your question on what it needs to
happen for us to have real quality
companies is a being able to serve those
markets. So I think the application is
going to be incredibly important. Um,
the application of something so complex
takes a little longer. Um, I I I go back
a lot to the building of high quality
businesses. Um, and I was I was studying
this this this this book that I that I
like a lot. It's called Engines That
Move Marcus by Alles N if I'm mentioning
his last name correctly. But the the
book basically just covers the last 300
years of technology revolutions, right?
And you go back to the railroads and you
go through main computers, personal
computers, everything in between,
mobile, the internet, cloud, on prem,
the whole thing. And at the end of the
book, he basically talks a lot about um
the the characteristics that he found,
right? And it's it's it's great to see
because you see some patterns, right? So
there were people that were hyping it.
There were people that were underhyping
it. There were uh people that were
saying that if you go on a train, your
lungs are going to explode and that the
internet was not going to count to
anything. and and there's some people
talking about it in different ways, but
my favorite one is that the companies
that really created value uh in each of
those technology revolutions were
companies that were very durable. And in
many cases, they had some monopolistic
is a tough word, but I'm going to use it
dynamics. And in essence, it it mean it
meant that the companies were big, but
they also had durability. And durability
is a function of defensibility. And it
could take many shapes. It could be
network effects, it could be scale, it
could be switching cost, um it could be
um that you're doing very hard IP, that
you build a great brand. All of those
things are I think very important. So
going back, if you're doing if you want
to se serve this very heavy services
sectors like in our case, it's very
complicated and you need to do it well
and you're basically taking over
people's liabilities. If you think about
it, I'm absorbing all of that liability
because the company is saying you're
going to manage this for me and if you
if I don't manage it properly, I'm going
to be on the hook and I love that. I can
take it all day because I understand the
risk and I understand the risk because I
build the product and I have the systems
and AI that understands the risk, right?
So, so I think we're going to be seeing
companies that do that very well and
that are going to have scale and they're
going to have defensibility. I also
think we we need to continue to invest
in being as sovereign as possible in
terms of the AI stack. Uh and what I
mean by that is um I would love to see
more AI clusters. I would love to see
more GPUs that are hosted there. I would
love to see more um even even
integration of American companies in the
stack. It's it's another topic, but I'm
I'm a little worried about the the the
US not being closer and have a lot of
Chinese uh companies taking over the
stack. Whether it's cloud, whether it's
telco, whether it's applications of AI,
whether it's models, I I think it's
really important that this stays in the
in the in the American hemisphere. So, I
would love to see more of that. Um I
think we need to be doing more in terms
of research. We're doing that in in in
taco now where we're doing fine tuning
of our own models. I think we need to
have a point of view on that because um
again defensibility I think you cannot
just be relying on someone else's stack
especially when you're talking about
very highly important information right
you need to have your world gardens as
you guys say right so so so I I think
that also needs to happen and then you
need to have teams and founders and
engineers that are really really ahead
uh studying all the time a lot of the
the knowledge in AI is is on papers and
it's out there in X but a lot of it is
very tribal and you need to be learning
all the time and be talking to the
companies that are applying in the right
way.
So, so I think we we see all of that,
we're going to have uh great companies
being built and I I think it's I think
it's it's going to start to happen and I
wouldn't rule out that these companies
are going to go beyond Brazil. I mean,
if Taco solves these problems in Brazil,
I think the other markets are going to
be
&gt;&gt; they definitely seem easier.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. hard but but I I I think they can
be they can be doable. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Earlier you mentioned you know how
Brazil is ahead in certain frameworks or
especially on the regulatory side. Um
you know the central bank is an
institution that we have spent a lot of
time studying. It's kind of impressive.
It's very very impressive what they what
they've done in Brazil and how that
drove uh fintech innovation in in the
country. Um, you know, one of the
questions that we have is that when
people abroad think of Brazil, they
still still think of Brazil as an
emerging market. But, um, what do you
what would you say to to the people
listening on what is it that they're
missing about Brazil?
I think um, the most uh, misunderstood
innovator in Brazil is the central bank.
It's it's it's it's incredible not only
on on PICSS which is what's most widely
understood but also on drags and how to
utilize blockchain and how to do um
regulation the proper way and and also a
lot of people don't understand this but
is it's the central bank of Brazil that
is exporting a lot of their uh um a lot
of their experience to other countries
to have similar systems or payment
systems. So in addition in addition to
them being highly technical and I think
we've we've all met them and and the
former uh central central um um central
bank director of Brazil is incredible. I
mean you would talk about technology and
cryptography and it's amazing. So so so
that's that's that's that's something
that's sets Brazil ahead for sure. Um
but I think also Brazil has other pieces
of the Brazilian stack. Um I I I dealt
with one of them which is the the the
regulatory uh body that governs
competition. Incredibly sophisticated,
incredible technocratic, incredible uh
uh how they make decisions, how they
think about markets. I was super
impressed. Uh and I had
several interactions with them back in
the day in in in RPI. I'm seeing it
today in in in taco, for example, in
everything that governs um relationships
with companies and workers. There's a
central repository in Brazil called
Esocial.
And I don't I don't know if there's any
country that has this, but in social you
have around 10 million companies with
almost 60 million employees with all of
their events of
every type of event that has happened in
a company with an employee from you get
hired, you get paid, you take holidays,
uh you take pay time off, like all of
that stuff is is is registered. And
that's that's that's that's incredibly
important. And and for us, I mean, it's
it's it's a huge asset because we
understand those those those
repositories. So, we can on board
companies in days, for example, we only
need access to the to the to the system
and we on board a company in in in days.
It's it's it's super powerful. Um and
and and you can go on and on in in in
other pieces of the stack of the
Brazilian stack. So, um, money there
moves so much faster, uh, from what we
like. Taxes move so like you pay taxes.
I don't file taxes in in Brazil, but I
have friends that do and partners that
do and my co-founder Fernando does it in
Brazil, but it's just it's just um it's
like you're basically you have
everything ready. You just sign it on
your phone, you tap, and you're ready to
go.
&gt;&gt; Sending a sale.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. So, so I I think it's it's
it's it's very very very modern and I
think it's it's important that we tell
the right narrative about what what what
this market is with all of its problems
and all of its challenges. But but it it
is true.
&gt;&gt; No, it's interesting that well in all
those ways and more. Brazil is so far
ahead than many places in the world. Yet
I think one of the stats of the the
skeptics often bring out is that there's
been no per capita growth for a decade.
So why how would you explain that?
&gt;&gt; Prominent a prominent investor. I'm not
going to mention him, but he he asked me
the same question and it was framed for
Brazil, but it was also framed for
Mexico.
&gt;&gt; We're so close to Mexico, largest
economic block. What's going on? Why
don't why don't we grow?
and and and I think uh um there's
elements of just the cost of doing
business in these countries, right? It's
a low cost. It's a low trust
environment. That's why we're solving
this problem to give trust. So you have
a a common uh um language and a common
infrastructure for people to to govern
and hire and just govern workers
relationships. Um so so those things I
think solve part of the problem. It's
hard to grow if you're basically have
all of these expenses on just doing the
basic things a company needs to do like
filing taxes and and and and paying
employees, right? It's it's obviously
hard and and and I think the promise is
that if you have artificial intelligence
applied to these problems, you're going
to remove part of that, right? That
doesn't solve the whole the whole
problem. I I I I think that these are
just removing all of this complexity in
which companies need to operate because
I seen how inefficient they are. I think
it's going to be an it's going to have
eventually an impact on the GDP. I
cannot calculate how much but but it's
definitely an issue. Um I I I also think
that uh there we need to see bigger
companies coming from new businesses,
right? Then um we know all of the great
companies that have come out from Latin
America. Um and many of them are
friends, mutual friends. We often speak
about about this. We we never build
these companies uh with the governments.
We never had like oh such a so great to
execute with this president. He helped
us so much. It was it was pretty much in
spite of it, right? And and then you get
incredible companies being built, right?
And through all of these like
recessionary cycles and and and macro
cycles and political cycles. So I think
there is it's important to also
maybe take that perspective these
companies are going to still exist and
they're still going to thrive in spite
of the macro which is really important.
Um, and hopefully when as they get
bigger, they're going to help modernize
the economy because there's few
companies that still have, I think, too
much power, which explains part of the
the that the lackluster growth. Um, and
maybe the classic, right, like education
and we need to have people that are more
capable, doing works that are jobs that
are more uh technologically focused, uh,
applied to other parts of the economy.
At the end, economies grow because of
productivity. And if we don't improve
the productivity, we're going to still
be seeing the same same dynamic.
&gt;&gt; So, you [clears throat] have this
concept about or you often discuss the
the airline Panama
and it's kind of tied to to your story
and what you want to achieve uh in the
in the years to come. And you also
describe yourself as a founder that you
don't want investors to put you in a
box. And uh it'll be it'll be great if
you can you can share a little bit more
about those two the box or both.
If you if you if you look at at at this
at the Americas um you find that the US
is the largest economy in the world if
it has 300 what 30 million people. If
you look at Latin America we're talking
about 650 million people. Third largest
economic block. Um, if you look at the
assets that we have, we have them all. I
think maybe some rare earth metal metal
we don't have. I don't think we have
like uranium but I think aside from that
we have uh GPUs we have engineering
talent we have abundant energy we have
commodities we have biodiversity
uh we have two oceans that are fairly
protective and we have three languages
broadly speaking we have similar
cultures similar religions we're in the
same time zone so for founders that are
building teams in Eastern Europe or
founders that are operating here in San
Francisco with teams in Stockholm. Like
they're going to connect to what I'm
saying. So I I I want to see way more
integration of this and and I want to
see more talent flowing and I want to
see more companies flowing from one side
to the other and I want to see more
capital. I think if we do that uh we're
going to be talking about just enormous
abound abundance along this corridor and
and that's the optimistic side. There's
also a side that is more alarming, which
is I I think we're going to we're going
to look back. I'm I'm here in the US.
I'm a US citizen. I'm obviously
Colombian. I'm obviously super connected
to Latin America and Brazil. So, I'm I'm
a bit a bit of a of a mix. But I think
it's really important that we kind of
own this stack, right? And and and we
want to make sure that it's us doing it
and and not another adversarial country.
And if I if I look at let's let's let's
take a look at the AI stack for example.
Um so we go start with GPUs. Well maybe
we start with energy we continue with
GPUs then we need cloud then we need
telco. I mean at the end go through
telco then we need applications right?
So let's focus on those. So energy um we
were not fully integrated and we had a
lot of players that were just exporting
energy and it still happens right like
China and Brazil are to the largest
trading partners and it's Brazil's
largest trading partner. Um if you look
at GPUs um I still think we're not doing
enough and I think we need to make sure
that countries in Latin America have
their own clusters but they could be
built with American technology. Um then
if we look at telco it's alarming
because you have um a lot of people know
about this but almost 100% of the telco
it's not 99 it's 100% of the telco
infrastructure in Mexico is always
I don't love that right but there's not
been much done to change that um then if
you look at applications
um I want I want the models to be models
that are culturally aligned uh I want
open source models that that are that
are also built by like say us. Um even
even applications and I think I think um
companies in the US don't really
understand this. U many of the greatest
companies are in San Francisco and I
open a Brazilian office and it's just
like and a Mexico office and it's like
two people um super underinvested
&gt;&gt; and I think that's a mistake in the long
in the long term. So so I want to see
way way more of that. So, so it's super
important for me and and I'm kind of
organizing my life around around around
that. And then in terms of of of of of
the boxes, I I I think uh
&gt;&gt; we're we're in a pretty hot box right
now. That might be the only time we put
you in a box. [laughter and gasps]
&gt;&gt; I just I just I just never um really
believe that uh uh you should be bounded
by the orthodoxy of doing things. Um, I
I guess it come from my early beginnings
of just being very free and and I think
as as as I see more things and I learn,
um, I also realize that I work the best
when I'm the most authentic and I work
the best when I'm doing things with
people that I enjoy, doing the things
that I really enjoy and and working in a
way that makes sense for me. And
I I kind of organized all of my life to
to be able to do that. And I find myself
that I love to build. Um I found myself
that I love to be very close to the
teams. I love to be very close with my
engineers. I love to be selling
products. And I still that do that all
the time. But I also find myself that I
learn a lot by investing. I learn a lot
by maybe understanding other companies
and maybe even building other companies.
Um, and I I I think that if you're able
to build it in a in such a way where
knowledge flows, talent flows, even
capital flows, and you keep it in a very
concentrated way, I think that's a
that's a very powerful powerful way of
operating. And took me a while to to to
understand it and and to design it in a
way that it fit me as best as as
possible and and and I'm trying to
trying to do that.
&gt;&gt; Amazing. Um I think maybe a a good place
to tie it together is uh all of us
clearly believe that um there's a large
opportunity for global AI companies to
be built out of LATAM and one of the
things that you you know have clearly
enjoyed doing is just mentoring the next
generation of founders and so maybe as
you think about 20 25year-old Sabbass
who's looking at the the sea of
opportunities now what what do you have
to the the the next gen of founders that
are looking at the opportunity set that
want to build a global AI company out of
Latam.
&gt;&gt; I think um pursuing
problems that are interesting to you.
&gt;&gt; It's very important.
Authenticity is very important. um make
sure that whatever it is that you're
building matters to you cuz building a
company takes a long time and when
you're doing it towards something that
is not really true to you or authentic
to you it's just becomes really really
hard. Um another one is is to run toward
what's difficult. I think difficulties,
hard problems are really important and I
want to think I'm thinking more and more
about defensibility.
&gt;&gt; Um, I'm sure you guys are as well,
especially in AI. I mean, it's it's is
the the pace of change is is is
relentless
and and and I think you need to have a
even though it's hard when you're
starting a company early on, you need to
have a point of view on on what is going
to make you more defensible and and even
if you don't have it yet, like how are
you going to grow into that and how are
you going to lean into that? Um as well
as growing your business, but but that
that I think is is is is critical. Um
three, just be always a student and a
learner. um and and not only learn about
the next model, the next application,
the next release, you know, the whatever
some lab is is offering now. Uh but also
being a student of businesses, uh I
think it's it's there's a lot of a lot
of leverage by by by understanding uh
what some of the greatest entrepreneurs
uh did. And lastly, just understand that
the bar is really high and it's hard to
build a great company at America, but
that's the only way to build something
that matters. So, so you got to you got
to really understand that quality is
incredibly important. And
companies that don't embrace that
quality and don't aspire to be also
globally great are going to have a
really, really tough time. And the good
news is that I think we have the the the
raw materials for that to happen. So So
I'll I'll stay optimistic.
&gt;&gt; Amazing. Well, I guess to end, if you
want to start a company, but you're not
quite ready, come join Taco.
&gt;&gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; Thank you. Save us. Pleasure.
[clears throat] Thank you.
[music]
