原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JXuwjGv2mCw

So, I've been thinking a lot about
Claude Mythos, like I just can't stop
thinking about it. It's I can't get it
out of my head. I need someone to
explain to me what this actually means.
Should I be freaking out about this?
Welcome to Mr. Shipper's Neighborhood.
[music] You may have heard that
Anthropic just announced Claude Mythos,
an AI model so intelligent that they
can't release it because it's too
dangerous. If you're experiencing a mild
form of AI psychosis, here's a little
PSA.
Never make any major life decisions
within 30 days of a meditation retreat,
a psychedelic trip,
or an encounter with a frontier AI
model. Anthropic just dropped Claude
Mythos, and and it seems pretty crazy.
If you read their system card, which is
like a couple hundred pages, it has all
these stories of the model hacking its
way out of sandboxes and posting on
public websites and basically being such
a such a cybersecurity genius that it
found critical vulnerabilities in pretty
much every major browser and operating
system. Anthropic has deemed it so
dangerous that they're not releasing it
because they need the world to get ready
before its capabilities are public. And
X is pretty much breaking as a result.
So, yeah, I mean, people are scared and
rightfully so. I think AI is such a
powerful technology
that it would be crazy to think that it
should only evoke one type of emotion.
Even if you're someone who's really
excited about AI like me,
but I've been through enough of these
cycles. I've been writing about and
using AI for a while. I really started
paying attention to it during the GPT-3
days before ChatGPT came out, and
all of the emotions that people are
feeling right now are familiar to me.
And I want to take a second to talk
about what Mythos might mean, and why I
think it's a big deal, but it's not
quite as scary as you might think. So,
the first thing to keep in mind is that
our intuitions about new technologies
are often just wrong. I know that
there's a tendency in in
in times like these to be like, "Well,
this is different."
But, I really know this feeling, and I
know that people thought this about
GPT-3 when it first came out. And GPT-3
is has had an enormous impact, but a lot
of my life is still the same now that
it's a
widely adopted technology.
Another thing that's really important
about Mythos and language models in
general is that they're they have a
spiky frontier. Just because a language
model is super good at one thing doesn't
mean that it's super good at everything.
For example, Mythos is quite good at
finding cybersecurity vulnerabilities,
but I'd be really curious to test it on
refactoring a production codebase or
building the MVP of an iPhone app. I
assume it's good, but is it
10 times better than what's available
now? I'm not so sure.
But but I feel I feel fairly confident
that even though it's more powerful,
it's not going to be the step change in
every capability that it is in
cybersecurity. And let's say I'm wrong.
Let's say it is that that sort of step
change.
What I've learned over the last 3 and
1/2 years of covering AI and using it to
build businesses and basically run my
life, and I feel quite confident in
saying that when you see AI progress
like this, if you learn to ride the
models, you learn to as they come out,
understand their new powers, and
understand how you how they might change
your workflow and your life and start to
adopt them, that you turn the model's
power into your power. You know, you can
think of these things as these spiky
superintelligences that pop out of a
box. They know nothing about what's
happened in the last year, nothing about
what happened 3 seconds ago, and they
have to generate an answer for you one
token at a time.
And they're actually like really good at
that, but it means that they're even
though they're incredibly powerful and
intelligent, they're a lot less flexible
and adaptable than humans are. They
don't learn from new information.
And if you're using them, if you're
riding on top of them, you're learning
new expertise that the models don't
have. And for me, that is what makes me
excited about new model progress. It's
not that there are no problems. It's not
I think it's probably a good thing, for
example, that Anthropic hasn't just
dropped Mythos on the public without
trying to mitigate it the harmful
consequences of of of its powers, but
another way to view AI progress is that
all these models become an extension of
your power. And that they actually need
you in order to do anything at all.
They're not
they're not alive in the same way. And
and what that does for me is it helps me
feel like, "Oh my god, I get to use this
stuff." Not like, "Oh my god, I I have
to I have to try this stuff, otherwise
I'm going to lose my job." So, what I'd
say if you are if you're scared or sad
or otherwise losing your mind about
this, is take a walk.
Touch some grass, and start using these
tools to
do whatever it is that's valuable for
you, whether that's coding or writing or
designing. If you just ride the model
progress, you're going to be fine.
It's actually going to be really good.
So, next time this happens and a new
model drops, just remember, never under
any circumstances make any major life
decisions within 30 days of a meditation
retreat, an ayahuasca experience, or an
encounter with a frontier model. See you
next time on Mr. Shipper's Neighborhood.
