原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4oCDpbMyugU

The reason we're going to win in
whatever domain it is is that we're
crazy. Even we don't know what we're
going to do when we get punched in the
face. And I think that's actually an
exceptional quality.
&gt;&gt; You're the CTO of Palanteer.
&gt;&gt; So, how do we give our service members
that Iron Man? How do I make them super
human?
&gt;&gt; You were the 13th employee.
&gt;&gt; Most people were working at Calendar
apps here. There was these 12 people who
were like, "Yeah, we're going to solve
problems in national security."
&gt;&gt; Palinger was a bunch of heretics early
on.
&gt;&gt; We're not here to ring the next sale.
We're here to transform the institution.
that has led to a culture that is wildly
focused on outcomes.
&gt;&gt; What are shamisms?
&gt;&gt; I describe for deployed engineers as
people that metabolize pain and excrete
product.
&gt;&gt; I have to ask you about some of these
like magical AI weapons. The clash
between anthropic and the Pentagon. You
need people making these decisions who
are accountable to the American people.
What made the Paler culture unique? It
wasn't actually clear that we're going
to succeed at all, but I'd rather fail
working on something this important than
succeed on building something completely
trivial and worthless.
CEO and co-founder
of
&gt;&gt; Now I'm here.
&gt;&gt; Sean Senko is one of my favorite
American innovators. He's been leading
Palunteer for over 20 years as its CTO
now and built a lot of what the company
stands for. He's lieutenant colonel in
the army. That's right. After making a
billion dollars and changing the
innovation world, he's also serving in
our armed forces because he loves
America. He has a great new book out
that's a bestseller called Mobilize.
He's going to tell us about the crisis
of the American industrial base, how to
revive what made us great, and how to
prevent World War II. Let's hear from
this patriot. Welcome to American
Optimus. Really excited to have my
friend Shan Sankar with us today. Sean,
thanks for joining.
&gt;&gt; Great to be here with you, Joe.
&gt;&gt; So Sham, you've been a key leader, a
palunteer. You're the CTO there. You're
lieutenant colonel in the army. Uh you
have an awesome new book out, Mobilize,
uh which uh I think you're in town in
Austin here. You're getting an award
tonight. So you're the man of the hour.
How's everything going?
&gt;&gt; Look, it's going great. I think the I'm
so excited about the kind of the vibe in
the country right now, the opportunity
to fix so many of the problems that
we've been staring at as it relates to
the defense industrial base, our
national security, mobilizing the
country. So I'm pumped.
&gt;&gt; It does kind of feel like the world came
our way a little bit, huh? Like from
from the last 20 years. Yeah, I I think
there there's certainly a number of us
who've kind of been seeing inside and
outside of government seeing like the
trends of the world. I mean, part of the
thesis of the book is if you really go
back to 2014, you have the
militarization of you have the
annexation of Crimea, the militarization
of the Spratley Islands in 15, Iran with
breakout capability for the bomb. You've
had a pogram in Israel, the Houthis
holding Red Sea trade hostage, global
trade hostage from the Red Sea. It it's
pretty hard to look at this and not
think perhaps we've lost deterrence. And
as a country that spends a trillion
dollars a year on defense, you know, how
is this happening? Why is this
happening? And I think there are a lot
of lessons from our past. You go back to
World War II, the early Cold War, the
fundamental innovative American spirit
that actually provided for our defense.
Now we have a huge number of founders
who've shown up to invest in the
national interest. We have uh bold
leadership uh throughout our military
services to seize that opportunity. And
I'm I think this is the moment.
&gt;&gt; I was really really worried in 2015 2016
where things were going and it kind of
like I think a lot of us respond to that
by jumping back in and getting our
friends to jump back in. It does it does
feel like it's gone the right way the
last 10 years.
&gt;&gt; I agree.
&gt;&gt; Well, you know, let's go back a little
bit before we dive into into into the
book and pound here. Tell us a little
bit about your upbringing. Your father
grew up in a mud hut in India. You and
your family were nearly murdered in
Nigeria. And how did you make it to
America and what does this country mean
to you?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, my my father was the youngest of
nine kids. He grew up in a single room
mud hut in uh in South India. Uh dad
studied pharmacy and as a very young man
22 23 years old. He he left India to go
build the first pharmaceutical
manufacturing facility in Africa. This
was in Nigeria. And uh dad was very
successful in his 20s. Uh you know he
built this factory. He ran it. Um uh
while I was born in India, my my parents
were obviously living in Nigeria. When
we were about three years old, when I
was three years old, there was an armed
robbery at the house and there was five
armed robbers that came in. They
decapitated the dog. They pistol whipped
dad. They threatened to kill him. Hor
threatened horrible things to mom. That
was a really that was a seinal moment
for dad. We left all of our earthly
possessions behind in Lagos and uh
resettled in Orlando. But you know that
that dad from that point forward always
had this counterfactual about the
gratitude for life in particular the
gratitude for America um that but for
this nation we'd be dead in addition
Legos
&gt;&gt; and why America versus somewhere else or
any other nation is was there was there
a reason why America was the one? Well,
of course. I I think if you go So, I
think there's there's like this
situational idiosyncratic factors like
dad had a childhood friend who was
living in LA and had built a business
selling knickknacks at theme parks and
this friend called dad up and said,
"Hey, I know this horrible thing
happened to you. There's this place
called Orlando. All the theme parks seem
to be going there. You know, I need
someone I can trust." But, of course, I
think the more strategic factors are the
the American soft power. You know, dad,
despite never having been to America,
had a fully formed conception of the
promise of this city on the hill from
great Hollywood movies from the export
of of of uh the vision of the country.
And so, of course, you know, even he not
having been here knew you'd be lucky to
be here.
&gt;&gt; You know, you're the CTO of Palunteer.
You you've made, you know, infinite
money at this point. And, you know,
you're a husband and a father. Yet, last
year you joined the US Army Reserves.
Why'd you do that? in part to honor
dad's sacrifice like this country has
given us more than we deserve to have
and I think a sign of a of a functioning
society is that those who succeed in it
are willing to invest their time,
energy, money, resources, attention and
and give back. Uh I think that the micro
reasons are like this is the example I
want to set for my children. Um I want
to make sure that they have the same
gratitude as maybe a generation removed
from the visceral violence that we
escaped. uh they should have the same
gratitude that that I had that dad
imparted in us. Um and I think I'm not
sure I had a lot of differentiated
skills to give the army at 24, but I
think at 44 uh I've learned a thing or
two along the way that I think can
hopefully help the army go faster.
&gt;&gt; You've definitely learned a lot to help
the military as you've been doing for a
long time. Let's go back to the early
days of Palunteer briefly. I guess you
were the you were the 13th employee when
we
&gt;&gt; lucky number 13.
&gt;&gt; That's actually that's that's funny. uh
you know I guess our our friend Gabe who
ended up working there later and
introduced us uh I remember recruiting
you there's a restaurant which you which
you seem to remember better than me cafe
this is in
&gt;&gt; Singaporean restaurant yeah
&gt;&gt; what was your initial impression of this
company
&gt;&gt; um just incredible high agency you know
it's like most people were working at
kind of like calendar apps or
something in the valley at the time and
here there was like these 12 people who
were like yeah we're going to solve
problems in national security and
obviously given my family background And
it that that tugged at my heartstrings.
I was I was kind of ruined like what
what could I work on that wouldn't feel
meaningless after seeing the opportunity
that that you guys were chasing? And I
think, you know, if you're being super
candid, it didn't it wasn't actually
clear that we're going to succeed at
all. But I'd rather fail working on
something this important than succeed on
building something completely trivial
and worthless.
&gt;&gt; Was the team was it uniquely talented or
mission? Is it is it just the mission
driven thing was the thing that stood
out by far?
&gt;&gt; Well, both. I mean the people Bob Mcgru
you know I was like these people were
enormously talented.
&gt;&gt; I was I was cowering my my my lack of
intelligence in in in in face of them
but also just like how you know you
combine the talent with the orientation
to the mission.
&gt;&gt; It was charismatic.
&gt;&gt; And so the mission driven side fit
really well. You you came in and
actually taught a lot of us a lot about
things. I guess you figured out
yourself. You seem to know how to
structure the business side and
transparency and processes and all these
things like where did that come from?
Uh, you know, Karp would say sometimes
you have a superpower. Your superpower
is defined by not what you're, you know,
what you're particularly good at per se,
but what what you can do that other
people can't do. And I think there's a
journey of discovery and kind of
organizing the team and getting us to
execute and having this ruthless focus
on working backwards from the customer's
problem. That's kind of my jam.
&gt;&gt; What made the pallet culture unique or
what still makes it unique? Like tell
us, I guess I didn't remember this. I
guess we made you live with a for a
while.
Yeah, I I think there was some agency in
that decision here, but it was Aki and I
were roommates for a very long time. Aki
was the the founding back-end engineer
and um it was I wouldn't say that it we
always had a great relationship. We
still do. I I think Aki and I like never
saw each other at home. We only saw each
other at work because we were always at
work. But it was very convenient to to
live like I think it was two walking
blocks away from the office.
&gt;&gt; This was my policy that Peter's policy.
You pay people more if they live near
the office. It works. work. Well,
&gt;&gt; we don't do that anymore, do we?
&gt;&gt; No, we don't. At some point in Palatoto,
we ended up competing against ourselves.
The subsidy went away because literally
the whole radius was occupied by us.
&gt;&gt; That's fair. That's fair. The intent
doesn't matter anymore. I still think it
maybe should matter for some offices,
but I guess maybe it's too obnoxious,
too. That's the problem. It's like we
were kind of like getting away with
things. Now that I I have a spouse, I
probably would have done things slightly
differently. We were pretty
&gt;&gt; It works for certain phase.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's like it's like young people.
It's a little different. I guess Alex
Cart made the team a bet they couldn't
live in the office for a month, but that
was more that was more of the hedgehog
guys. I think
&gt;&gt; it it was but I mean I think it's so
uniquely the craziness of the counter
culture. It's like Yeah. So if you live
in the office for a month, fortunately
we did have like a shower stall there,
but if you live in the office for a
month, I will I will ensure that there's
like barbecue every Friday in
perpetuity. Uh and yeah, I think he I
guess so. Um but you know, Andy, I think
actually pulled it off. I love it. He
still comes over for magic like once a
week here. I just saw him. So FDE for
deployed engineers. I think you coined
the term. Uh I do remember thinking and
talking about how it was like really key
to get engineers out in the field and
get experience, but you kind of like
branded and structured and like created
the whole thing like tell us about this.
What are FDES? I mean everyone now wants
FDES like everywhere in the valley. It's
very fun to see like this thing that we
created just like everywhere now.
&gt;&gt; I can't say it was founded with perfect
foresight but I think it it really
started with Karp's intuition. that part
did have foresight which is um you know
we are not going to build a we're not
going to succeed as a company by just
having sales people interacting with the
customer that actually there's a lot
more to learn from the customer uh and
you need the substance provider to be
colllocated with them and then I think a
series of things kind of happened in the
early days where we would try to be a
little more conventional we' try to give
the software to the customer and
actually it would not end up working not
because the software didn't work but
because of some underlying
infrastructure problem or you had to
like discover that actually to get get
the software to work, the whole stack
had to work. Things that were beyond
your control, you had to take wildly
more ownership.
Uh, and then I think the the first real
deployment, which was like this 18 hours
a day, seven days a week for two weeks
just to get it to work was like a really
grounding experience that actually the
only way to solve for the product that
must exist is through back propagation.
You have to have really technical people
sitting with the customer understanding
figuring out what's the right product.
The ability to like mutate and ship that
product and then like anneal those
lessons back into the core product. I
often think about as like vector math.
You have four deployed engineers who are
they're kind of hackers. They're kind of
dopamine hit in life comes from solving
the problem. Never mind that this is a
caricature, but never mind that it's
basically maggyver like duct tape and
bubble gum. The point is you solve the
problem.
&gt;&gt; On the other end, you have the
traditional product engineer and their
dopamine hit comes out of building the
thing the right way.
&gt;&gt; Uh, and never mind it doesn't solve a
problem anyone cares about. Don't you
see how beautifully built it is? And so
if you can figure out a way to get these
things to move in tension, that's how
you kind of sail up wind.
&gt;&gt; We always call them backend engineers
and then the forward deployed engineers.
I remember is is that what's the term
now for the core engineers back home?
&gt;&gt; Product engineers.
&gt;&gt; Product engineers back home. And it's
it's interesting because nowadays with
AI, I guess it's easier to to be more
across the spectrum or or do you still
do you still have the really strong
distinctions though?
&gt;&gt; I think actually so we still have the
really strong distinction because it's
like are you accountable to your
customer succeeding? Are you accountable
to the product succeeding?
&gt;&gt; Obviously, you want both of these things
to work. And so there's a question of do
you think you're going to get them to
work by collapsing it to a single person
who's accountable for both or do you
think you're going to get to work by
wiring up an elegant tension that you
manage between the two? I think the
thing that most people don't understand
about this is um it is an unstable
equilibrium. So if you're going to
pursue a strategy like this, it actually
requires a dictator to sit between these
two organizations to manage that tension
to make sure it's a productive tension.
It doesn't get counterproductive and to
to make the strategic calls along the
way.
&gt;&gt; There is like I guess what Karp would
call a dialectic between the two where
there's like truths about what you need
on both sides that you have to
compromise between. Huh.
&gt;&gt; Then the the uh personality conflicts
here get very big. You know, the uh the
the the person who gets from 0 to one
thinks they're doing 80% of the work.
&gt;&gt; Y
&gt;&gt; the person who's getting from one to n
thinks they're doing 80% of the work.
Let's just say there's the first 80% and
the second 80%. And as a consequence,
they don't quite appreciate that you
like you both need each other.
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah. Whenever something in attacks
90% done, it's like there's actually a
lot more to do to actually make it work.
What are shamisms? We talk about this
now a lot. What does that mean to
Palunteer? I mean, I I guess I've coined
a few things over time that seem totally
normal to me, but um uh I describe for
deployed engineers as people that um
that metabolize pain and excrete
product. That's one that has gotten
pretty popular here. Uh but I think
that's that's a good that's a good way
of thinking about about the role really.
Uh gamma radiation. So, what's your
theory of growth? Like how do you as an
individual expect to get better? I think
too many of us have bought into this
vecow farm-like mentality of a linear
ladder that you kind of climb that has
perfect predictability and uh to I like
to present an alternative theory which
is the Incredible Hulk. You know, how
did Bruce Banner, the mildmannered
physicist, turn into the Incredible
Hulk. It wasn't through progressive
overload. It's not like he lifted a
little bit more weight every single
week. It was through a near fatal dose
of gamma rays. Could have turned him 50%
chance he died, 50% chance he turned
into the big green monster. And I think
that's a much much more rewarding way to
think about your own growth. How do you
find yourself take throw yourself off
the deep end into situations you may not
be qualified for and let that unleash
the Hulk within you?
&gt;&gt; A lot of people stop growing because
they stop they stop taking risks because
they already see themselves as
successful and they don't want to expose
themselves anymore to hard things. Huh.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So many so many uh and they you
know so much of it is also like there's
weird social pressure. How do I explain
the growth I'm having to my significant
other or to my friends or to my family,
you know? So I need labels. I need all
these things that are actually truly
anti-growth but have the appearance of
growth and in growth it often you can
only connect the dots retrospectively.
It's very hard to know how will I grow
from this experience but you can know
that if it's really hard and it's going
to push you you're going to grow in some
way.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, definitely the hardest things
in life you always end up shaping who
you are and you hopefully in positive
ways if you react right. I want to ask
about the business side because you've
you're a CTO but you've run you still
help run the whole business. You've ran
the whole business for a very long time
on the business side of Palunteer which
is unique obviously because it's very
technical but you know one thing that I
found interesting is is you became a lot
more disciplined over time. So I think
in the old days we would like chase a
lot of stuff and then now you would just
be very blunt and say that sounds great
but here's why it's not going to work.
And it it comes across I think to some
people as cynical if they don't if they
don't know you very well but but it but
it actually just learn to say no to like
a ton of stuff. Tell me about this.
Well, I think some of that is just
experience like and in particular, it's
interesting coming from someone calling
me cynical because I'm kind of a wildly
optimistic person. Um, but you you kind
of figure out what are the conditions
for success. You know, you think naively
in the beginning it's like, well, if the
product's great, this is going to work.
But then you start understanding there
are all sorts of conditions that need to
be true at the customer, how the
customer thinks about the world, where
they are in terms of understanding their
own problems. um the the nature of the
value you can add, how enduring is the
value going to be, how well shaped is it
to be?
&gt;&gt; So, it's actually the value itself
you're going to add is really important
consideration to even bother engaging or
not.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I think the the the the
most valuable part of for deployed
engineering that I don't think people
understand is it changes what your
reward function is. In a traditional
software company, your reward function
is can I sell the software.
&gt;&gt; You don't actually really have a
visceral understanding of what how much
value does that software create? What
could you do to make it more valuable?
you only distantly observe that in a
tenuated way through renewals or
something, right? But the forward
deployed engineer often is actually
doing the work before you have a
contract. You know, it's kind of it's
leading sales and you have a visceral
sense that actually you're only going to
get the sale if you're delivering value.
&gt;&gt; Uh and that allows you to keep chasing
up the value curve here and that that
that has led to a culture that is wildly
focused on outcomes. Are we is like does
any of this work matter existentially
like we're not here to ring the next
sale. We're here to transform the
institution. But then a lot of times uh
you know you could add value and you
know the Ford FL engineer would make
something that worked really well for
them but you still it's not still not
worth trying to sell it to them. Like
what what are some of the reasons why
sometimes
&gt;&gt; um you know some of the problems at the
institution require you to one
acknowledge that you have a problem and
two be willing to actually break glass
to to recognize that you're going to
have to restructure this. And I just as
a as a cheat code, you can think about
it is we're usually incredibly
successful with founder-led institutions
or where the the leadership acts as if
they are founders because they they have
an ownership mentality over the entire
outcome and are willing to reimagine
everything in order to achieve the goal.
I think a lot of this actually is very
congruent with the military like you
must win. Winning matters and people are
willing to reexamine particularly as
closer and closer you get to the
fighting force they're willing to
reexamine literally everything. uh in
order to achieve that goal. And so
finding commercial companies that have
that same perspective is is is really
important.
&gt;&gt; I like the extreme uh example you gave.
I was introducing a company, I won't say
which recently, that has hundreds of
billions of of cash and very very large
company, but they're the financial
operators and they're not really as
focused maybe on on on existential
problems of their companies because
they're rich no matter what. Whereas the
opposite would be like the mission to
like save a pilot in the Middle East or
work with special forces. How would you
put that?
&gt;&gt; No, I think I think that's well said.
It's like do you need to get better? You
know, are you are you waking up? Um does
every incremental improvement actually
motivate you? Uh and I think you know
some companies are kind of running on
autopilot.
&gt;&gt; Uh and uh I would say that there periods
of extreme growth for us are always
periods of extreme disruption in the
market. You could say part of the reason
the chat GPT moment was so valuable for
us is it actually set an expectation
with CEOs. Hey, wait a second. My
software is supposed to work. You know,
because if if you so many of the stuff
on if you go go back to COVID and supply
chains, people spent in the years
leading up to COVID, they spent5
billion, 10 billion dollars on their ERP
system. They were so proud of it. It was
the greatest thing since sliced bread
and then it fell over like a paper tiger
within a week of COVID happening. So,
what you know, go back to the earnings
call. What were CEOs talking about on
the public company earnings calls? Zoom,
Teams, these were the IT investments
that saved their business. What a
condemnation of the software industrial
complex that actually they couldn't
build anything that was resilient to a
reality that their customers were
experiencing. In those moments, people
are become incredibly open-minded and
their expectations become very high. And
you you you now have purchase to to to
deliver outcomes that they're going to
appreciate.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I want to get to the topics
of the book and we'll circle back maybe
some of the military stuff we're doing
because everyone's asking me to hear
what we're allowed to say. But let's
let's talk about mobilize a little bit.
So, you know, between our support in
Ukraine and the attacks in Iran, like is
our industrial base keeping up? Like,
what are the problems? Where are we
right now?
&gt;&gt; Look, I think the lesson of Ukraine is
that we went through 10 years of
production and 10 weeks of fighting. And
if you set that in a historical context,
like that's a five alarm fire. You
&gt;&gt; So 10 years of stuff got used in 10
weeks.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It took us 10 years to make a
quantity of material that we expended in
10 weeks.
&gt;&gt; That's terrible.
&gt;&gt; That math doesn't really work for very
long, obviously. Uh, and so then you
have to understand like how did we get
here? What did it used to be like? We
have these great memories of World War
II where we just in our mind flipped a
switch and converted auto factories to
build war material. But that's not
really what happened. What really
happened is you had this uh Danish
immigr. He was formerly the number two
at Ford where he perfected mass
production. Then he became the number
two at GM. And Roosevelt ahead of a
consensus, remember the country was
incredibly divided in the leadup to
World War II. There were a lot of people
who wanted to be isolationists. That's
Europe's war. It's not our problem. We
shouldn't get involved.
Roosevelt figured out in 38 and 39 how
to bring Wiludson in and start
mobilizing for production. And we had
the benefit of len lease a moment where
we were providing material to our
allies. We ourselves were not fighting.
But that that 18 months it required
basically 18 months to to build and
retool factories to enable us to do this
sort of stuff. You could argue that
Ukraine should have been our lend lease
moment. Not because, you know,
regardless of your politics of how much
support we should have had, we should
have recognized we are incapable of
producing at a rate for our own national
security. And we got here through a frog
boil, which I kind of document in the
book. It's a consequence of having won
the Cold War. You know, because if you
go back to 1989, not that long ago, when
the Berlin Wall still stood,
only 6% of major weapon system spending
went to defense specialists, what we
think of today as prime contractors
whose only business is defense. 94% of
the money for major weapon systems went
to dualpurpose companies, companies that
were invested in our national economy,
but also our national security. And
we've kind of forgotten the the stories
of their involvement. Like Chrysler,
yes, they make minivans. They also make
missiles. They are the prime contractor
on the Minute Man, the original Minute
Man missile. Ford made satellites until
1990. General Mills, the serial company,
made torpedoes and inertial guidance
system.
&gt;&gt; That sounds like crazy today, right?
&gt;&gt; It sounds and you could say why, you
know, why is that even rational? Well,
General Mills, the serial company, had a
mechanics division to make machinery to
process grain. Everything they learned
about building that type of machinery,
they were able to repurpose it into
machine tools and factory production
that subsidized our national security.
We lived in a world where every car,
camera, and serial box that an American
bought was actually subsidizing the R&amp;D
against our national security. And
these, you know, national security is
not a end unto itself. It's a means to
an end. And that that end is the
economic prosperity of America. And so
getting those things to be aligned I
think is is really critical and
particularly in a world where so much of
the R&amp;D spending from the 60s was driven
by the government. Now the vast majority
of the spending is driven by the
commercial sector.
&gt;&gt; You wrote that the Pentagon started
breaking in 1961. What what do you mean
by that?
&gt;&gt; We brought in a a brilliant businessman
Robert McNamera. But I think one of the
things we really got wrong is that
McNamero ran Ford at an era when Ford
was entirely supply constrained. The
demand for cars was essentially
unlimited. Any car that he made, they
could sell.
&gt;&gt; That is a distorting school to go to,
right? It it teaches you actually that
the only thing you need to do is manage
your supply chain, grind your suppliers,
focus on efficiency, not on
effectiveness. There was not enough
competition. So actually the auto
industry that McNamera learned all his
lessons in when it met Japanese
competition in the 70s got destroyed and
had to reinvent itself. But the Pentagon
didn't reinvent itself based on all
those lessons of of Japanese
competition. And so it kind of started
this steady process. You know it would
be it would be intellectually dishonest
to place all the blame on one person
like Magmare. I think even just stepping
back structurally
defense is a monopoly. You know it's the
opposite of a monopoly. Monopoly, you
have one seller of a thing. In a
monopoly, you have one buyer of a thing.
&gt;&gt; It's the only buyer.
&gt;&gt; And that it's really hard to be a buyer
if you really believe in the free
market. It's the fact that you have so
many disperate customers with so much
signal. You get to aggregate it. You get
to work against it. If one customer is
low vision, doesn't want to buy your
thing, there might be a hundred other
customers who have the vision and do
want to buy your thing, right? But in a
world where you have one buyer, now you
have this single point of veto. And I
think our history would suggest it's
part of the the fun part of writing the
book was documenting it. I I I talk I
talk about the I call them heretics and
heroes. If you really look at the
history of defense innovation, almost
none of it happened because of the
system. All of it happens.
&gt;&gt; It's always the heretics who break the
rules who do it, right?
&gt;&gt; We can go all the way back to Winston
Churchill. So Churchill as the head of
the Royal Navy
&gt;&gt; Yeah. World War I before
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Exactly. built the tank. How crazy
it that that the that the British army
was like, I got horses. I don't need
these tank thing. Go away. And and he
built land ships as a rogue renegade
effort.
&gt;&gt; I love that he called them it had to be
land ships. wouldn't be in his job jar.
&gt;&gt; It's one of my favorite books actually
is when he writes about before World War
I and it's like he just like fired all
these bureaucrats and push everyone out
of the way. I feel like it'd be harder
today to have someone that strong able
to push through but but is needed. Huh.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You build up, you know, the
entropy of the universe is against you.
You you build up these bad practices.
And I think part of his understanding is
like you it's not an ad hominemum
critique. It's a structural critique. Uh
the other example I love is Andrew
Higgins, this foulmouthed Scott Irishman
down in Louisiana. He was a huge Anyone
from Louisiana knows Higgins. you know,
he he he was a boat builder and in the
in the 20s he observed how Chinese
bootleggers were able to build these
shallow draft boats uh to kind of outrun
the policing
and he and he used that to inspire his
own boat building. So Higgins he built
the boat um the Navy wouldn't let him
compete. Then finally there was a
enterprising marine first lieutenant who
got him in. He won the competition. Then
the Navy tried to steal his IP and build
the boats themselves. They couldn't they
couldn't even steal the IPing. In the
end, 92% of all boats in World War II
were Higgins boats.
&gt;&gt; 92%. The ones
&gt;&gt; the boys would not have landed at
Normandy or Ewima without the Higgins
boats.
&gt;&gt; I mean, you see this even in the Civil
War, you had like I have upstairs a
Gatling gun with the patents from the
1860s, but they weren't used because
people were ignoring them because they
didn't think it made sense. Like like
the renegades would figure things out
that don't always get in, I guess, until
later. Huh.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And it's equally important to have
the renegades inside of government. Like
some of the fun stories are like Higgins
on the outside, but you had Admiral
Rickover who built the nuclear navy.
When Rick Over wanted to build a
nuclearpowered submarine, Oppenheimer
himself told him, "I don't think this is
going to work." Imagine the hood. Like
in the face of Oppy telling you this,
you're like, "No, I think you're wrong.
I'm going to do it." And he did it in
six years.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I love it. What are some of
the stories? Is there anyone with with
where Palanteer itself got to be a
renegade and push something through?
&gt;&gt; Well, the the fun part was documenting
for the first time Colonel Drew Kukor's
story. So here you have this uh this guy
who grew up in Southern California,
single mother uh Mormon. Uh he was
didn't have a lot of money. So he went
to ROC to go to college, joined the
Marines, and he became the founding
father of really Maven, the Intel the
the AI enterprise kind of marquee
project. And kind of looking at the
amount of this guy had to deal
with. You know, they his nickname was
the Iron Dome of Pentagon This
whole project started it in the basement
of the Pentagon, which is kind of the
equivalent of a garage in Palo Alto, I
guess, for for these sorts of things,
and now it is one of the most successful
programs, but he he suffered personal
and professional slight, IG
investigations, all all completely made
up horseshit because the bureaucracy was
threatened by the amount of success that
he was really having here. Uh, and it's
it's a great lesson of like what it
actually takes to be a heretic, how much
you have to be willing to sacrifice for
the ultimate outcome at your at the
expense of your career. It feels like
there's so many stories of heretics like
with the airplanes from the 30s and 40s
and with locked special groups early on
and like how come how come they don't
just like stop the bureaucracy from
trying to kill heretics anymore? Like
why is it always like almost win and
almost stop all these things?
&gt;&gt; Well, that question you just asked is
why I wrote the book. We we have to
remember that we need the heretics. Uh
you you we have them by the way. It's
not like we're missing them. It's like
heretics require two two things. the
space for their heresy to exist and a
little bit a modicum of protection from
the top to enable that to happen right
here. And so
&gt;&gt; you just need a little bit of
protection.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly.
&gt;&gt; I feel I feel like this is like every
company needs to do this for their most
talented people because because the
organizations always reject the talent
and your job as leader to keep them.
Like we were I mean Palenter was a bunch
of heretics early on, right? It's
basically like like I felt like I was
like the leader of a bunch of heretics
and we were just like beaten by the
mainstream people for years and years
and years. And so it's really fun we're
now it's very funny now to be attacked
as like this like in military industrial
like leaders now because we were just
like beaten by the bureaucracy forever
as these outsiders like do do you still
feel like an outsider? Are you an
insider now because you're lieutenant
colonel and palenteer is winning like
like how does that is your mindset
changed
&gt;&gt; constitutionally I'm I'm going to always
feel like an outsider. I always I always
feel like I'm the the heretic looking
in. Maybe I relish that role a little
bit which is why it appeals to me. Um
but but absolutely in the beginning of
balance really like we tried to go
through the front door and very much got
you know the front door was not an
accessible door.
&gt;&gt; So disrespected so disrespected like
people just wanted us to die. We
&gt;&gt; and I I there's a positive piece of that
you know you carry that chip on your
shoulder to like earn your place every
day and you you recognize your product
has to be 10 times better than the
alternatives and you know there's like a
fire in your belly from it. Um but it
was yeah was it's I think it's it's
motivating. It's motivating to know look
why should it be easy for us? It wasn't
easy for any of these guys.
&gt;&gt; And so chapter 11, you said factory is
the weapon. What's your framework for
reviving manufacturing? I'm working on
this in a few ways. We're starting to
scale up some things. I we still have a
lot of work to do. How are you thinking
about this?
&gt;&gt; You can kind of break down like what are
the laws of physics and what are the
laws of man? And ideally, our factories
are marginally if if if how do we break
down the laws of man that are
constraining the factory? How do we
qualify this part? How do we do this?
This is just the way we've done it. you
know, a reimagination of these
processes. I do think you I'm I'm a
onetrick pony in the sense that I think
of everything starts with the people and
if you look at I don't think it's fair
to say that America is not great at
manufacturing like the mo look at SpaceX
look at Tesla like we have modern
manufacturing marvels they just think
about manufacturing differently
&gt;&gt; so how do we bring a kind of software
continuous iteration colloccating R&amp;D
with production mindset a bias towards
vertical integration to really get after
these things squeezing out the dead
weight loss that happens through what I
think is the legacy of global ization of
like, hey, we're going to just really
like push out our supply chains. We're
going to optimize on cost instead of
innovation.
That's kind of the the precursor starts
with that. Then recognizing the Ukraine
example is really important because what
we got wrong to to summarize it would be
we thought the stockpile was the
deterrent. It's not the stockpile. It's
the ability to generate the stockpile.
And this is the frog boil that happened
which is like, well, how many of these
weapons do we really need? We're not
using them. Maybe we can have a little
less, a little less. Let's make it a
little more fancy. let's make it more
exquisite. Well, now that it's more
expensive, we can afford even less. And
you kind of got into this doom loop and
a recognition that frankly in World War
II, the Germans were superior engineers.
&gt;&gt; Uh we just could produce more and that
counted for a lot and they produced
small exquisite quantities. So today we
look like the Germans and the Chinese
look like we did
&gt;&gt; which is why we got to fix that in
100xit. Well, we're working on it with
Seronic and others. What are you seeing?
any companies in particular you're
working on you're excited about for
scaling up manufacturing?
&gt;&gt; Well, I think I think a lot of the new
entrance are going to have a huge role
to play. Hadrien, Seronic, Androl. Uh
but I also think like reinvigorating the
existing industrial base is a huge part
of this.
&gt;&gt; We have a huge number of um smaller very
small they're not even mediumsized
enterprises. They're small businesses
that make parts. they're they're coming
up on a succession challenge where the
the the owner sole proprietor type thing
or limited partnership and it's going to
need to be transitioned. You need kind
of outside capital to reinvest in the
machine toolings and modern processes.
So I think I think we're going to have
to get both of these things to work.
Certainly we're going to need a high low
mix. We're going to our exquisite stuff
is exquisite
&gt;&gt; as we see with Epic Fury. This stuff
really works. The real problem is that
we don't have a hundred times more of it
and we're going to need to invest in in
scaling the low end of this as well uh
to to kind of fight the future war.
&gt;&gt; Few more questions on on defense. If you
were in charge of fixing the culture at
the Pentagon to protect heretics and to
make sure we're scaling all this stuff
up like what are the number one or two
things you'd focus on? I you know I
think culture follows from execution and
you know Bill Perry who was deputy
secretary of defense during the last
supper and subsequently the secretary of
defense like he had this fork in the
road where he could think about I could
try to either fix the system or I could
make sure that stealth and GPS happen by
going around the system and he chose the
latter and I think that's the wise move
which is like how do you deliver the
incredible successes that motivate the
next generation of heretics that set the
path for those who are willing to see it
because if you try to fix the system
you're going to lose. you're going to
get bogged down in trench warfare and
you know I I think you you you got to
fix it through inspiration.
&gt;&gt; Isn't this always a problem though that
it's never worth fixing these really
hard problems the government just as we
just always just go around them and so
this thing just gets nastier and nastier
and more and more broken.
&gt;&gt; I think that is a problem. I I think
that what I would offer you though is
like can you fix the system by literally
trying to fix the system or do you have
to fix the system by getting parts of it
to work kind of like eat your way
through the elephant.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I've always thought we should just
fire a ton of the core and just build
new things around it, but that's
apparently not appropriate.
&gt;&gt; There's a Chesterton fence question
there, too, though. You know,
&gt;&gt; what Yeah. What do we need that we don't
know we need?
&gt;&gt; And and so I think a lot of it comes
down to people.
&gt;&gt; There's so many tens of thousands of
people doing things that are don't seem
necessary to me. Am I crazy?
&gt;&gt; Uh it's we're not as efficient as we
could be. My my the only push back I'd
have on that is we built 154 different
airframes in World War II. I think
probably 10 of them really mattered.
Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So part of part of what's gotten us to
this situation is a fixation on
efficiency over effectiveness. Like you
it's a pathing question. You have to get
to effectiveness first then you can work
on
&gt;&gt; just build the most effective things
around it and not don't worry about
trying to take it take it apart and
&gt;&gt; yeah it's very much like we manage
everything as if it's a one to end thing
when sometimes there's a zero to one
thing and those things have to be
managed differently.
&gt;&gt; I guess I'm probably better at zero to
one anyway. I should do more zero to one
things around it and not worry about
this giant mess in the middle. is is the
is the right strategy.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I think the zero to one
things as they scale end up replacing
and fixing it, right? It is easier to
fix and lead with momentum than
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; I have to ask you about some of these
like magical AI weapons that we're using
right now. I know you can't tell us
everything, but this has been
interesting to watch the war from afar.
And I think Israeli fighter jets
supposedly in the first 20 minutes hit
500 targets and obviously Palanteer was
involved very much in in helping take
all the data and and and decide things
there. What are you allowed to tell us
about how these things work?
&gt;&gt; Uh, unfortunately, not not a huge
amount, but I I think what you could say
there's there's a way in which there's
nothing new under the sun. It's it's
just the udaloop. You know, John Boydy's
observe orient act. And whoever uh
whichever side is able to go through the
udaloop fastest is the side that's going
to win. And so you could think about the
the application of of of AI to the drug
trronal targeting process as about
providing an advantage to cut through
the fog of war and to be able to apply
effects to your adversary before they
understand even what's happening and
respond to it. A way of tying national
intent to the targeting and fires
process. Uh and I I would say Epic Fury
is a leapfrog in capability, but I think
it also shows that there is another 10x
100x to go. that's illuminated by what's
already been done here.
&gt;&gt; So as as AI improves and as the
infrastructure improves, we can actually
do an even much better job next couple
years.
&gt;&gt; Oh yes,
&gt;&gt; sorry better not screw with us.
&gt;&gt; That's deterrence and that's the whole
point.
&gt;&gt; That is the whole point. Let's look
ahead. The clash between Enthropic and
the Pentagon over the cutting edge AI is
obviously a preview of some of these
kind of tough questions. Uh you can
imagine AI is 100 times better and
there's people working on it and it's
and it's interesting questions around
like what you want the government to do
or not. You have obviously some of the
very best minds in the private sector.
these days working on this. It used to
be those best minds were in the
government. So it's it's kind of more
aligned like how is this dynamic going
to function where the best minds are
outside the government but then having
to work with it and might have different
opinions about things.
&gt;&gt; Well, one of the things I really hoped
helping stand up detachment 2011, you
know, how do we build more of a bridge
between Silicon Valley and the
department?
&gt;&gt; So detachment 2011 is is what you're
serving in as a lieutenant colonel.
&gt;&gt; That's correct. Yeah. And I I think part
of it is like we have to walk many miles
in each other's shoes to understand
these things. You know, I I think
there's a lot of historical analoges
that that suggest if you you know, if
you really believe in democracy, you
need people making these decisions who
are accountable to the American people.
They're elected or appointed and
accountable to elected officials.
Uh if you go back, the the analog I like
historically is thinking about Theodore
Hall. Theodore Hall was one of the
youngest scientists in the Manhattan
Project. He joined the project at 18
years old, right out of Harvard, genius
physicist.
&gt;&gt; He had an older brother, Edward Hall,
who was actually the inventor of the
Minute Man missile. But you know there
were two types of traitors in the
Manhattan project. There were those who
were committed communists like Klaus
Fuks always a spy got him to the
program.
&gt;&gt; Y
&gt;&gt; Theodore was not that sort of trader. He
was naive. Theodore thought look I'm a
genius at physics so I must be a genius
at geopolitics. And in his conception of
the world the only way to have world
peace was for two countries to have the
bomb. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; So without any penchant for communism or
even a ill will towards America, he
thought this was his moral duty was to
walk into the Soviet trade mission in
New York in 1944 and give them secrets
to the bomb. But what happened was not
world peace. Every death since 1949 from
communism, which is the year the Soviets
got the bomb, you could say that blood
is at least partially on Theodore Hall's
hands. Uh and so I think we we we live
in a world where many smart people
struggle with epistemic humility. what
are the limits of my knowledge? How do I
have how do I have some humility around
that? You know, because the alternative,
you could say theore was essentially
tyranny by tech bro. You know, he
decided global policy and it had huge
consequences. On the other end, there's
a true deep commitment to democracy even
when it feels uncomfortable.
&gt;&gt; How do you think about the future of
warfare with AI and like prosecuting war
without humans in the loop? I mean,
obviously there's things where right now
like if something's incoming, you're
going to want the AI to target it and
destroy it for you. And I'm learning a
little bit about this from Seronic uh
and other companies I'm involved in. If
you have hundreds of, you know, ships
having a war and China has hundreds of
ships and they're reacting in real time
with AI, you're probably going to want
to react in real time with AI, too. And
you're going to probably want to give
more leeway in response in order to in
order to beat them. Like there's ways
you have to use AI there. And then it
goes kind of higher and higher up like
for targeting, for example, and for, you
know, at what point should human be in a
loop or not in the loop? And it's it's a
it's it's interesting because Congress
probably has some opinions on this and
they're trying to figure out how to
regulate it and and like obviously, you
know, we're probably not ready for AI to
be making certain high level decisions,
but there's other ones they have to make
or we lose and and like like how do how
do you see this?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I I think there's a lot of
complexity and nuance to the issue and
you have to kind of slice it in layers.
First of all, we've had autonomous
weapons since the 70s and 80s. You know,
you think about like the Aegis system
that defends a carrier. uh when it
senses an incoming threat coming at the
speed of a missile, it's firing off to
protect the ship. And you don't have the
time for a human to do many of these.
&gt;&gt; Wouldn't make sense for a person to have
to say, "Yes, the ship's already hit."
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Exactly. Then you can kind of even
look at something like uh a weapon uh a
weapon that you fire from a fighter jet.
Well, it's your radar system that's
telling you that it's detecting an
adversary. and you you as a human have
weapons release, but then it's also the
guidance system that's that's going and
closing that kill chain. So there
there's a lot of this that's actually
happening already by computers. So I
would posit that this is more of a
difference of degree than kind. And
because we're miscatategorizing it as a
total difference of kind, we kind of
have some derange conversations around
it.
&gt;&gt; Y
&gt;&gt; and so we need to have a riskbased
decision of like what is the risk to our
force, you know, nobody is trying to
jump the shark and have killer robots.
It's really like how do we have
something that doesn't advantage the
adversar's udaloop over ours and mean
that we're showing up to a gunfight with
a knife? Uh and so you have to measure
the risk as you go. And I think uh
you're going to have to feel your way
through that, right? And I think much to
the department's credit, they want the
Frontier Labs, they want everyone who's
really smart about this to have a seat
at the table and to help work through it
together. But recognizing that like
policy has to be set by policy makers
&gt;&gt; to play devil's advocate because I 100 I
agree with what you said and I 100%
agree we have to stay ahead of our
adversaries um and use AI for these
things to play devil's advocate there's
some people on the outside don't know
this stuff as well they see maybe
there's some heretic inside of the
department of war who builds a program
that does create some kind of thing that
you might call a killer robot and maybe
breaks the rules and then all of a
sudden you have something that is very
scary and causing problems. I mean, it
sounds ridiculous when I say it, but if
people are worried about this, like how
like what should we be talking to them
about it? Like how how are we going to
protect people not for this not to
happen?
&gt;&gt; Well, if you're concerned about that,
like why why aren't you worried that
someone in a garage is going to create a
killer robot? You know, I think the
probability of that happening is really
no different. So then that becomes
almost like a technical question, not a
ma matter of will. You know, it's like
it's just not how weapon systems are
developed. Like, you know, you'd have to
believe that there's a conspiracy where
a rogue actor can go do something like
this in the in an organization the size
of the department. And I I think it it
under it fundamentally underestimates
the moral fiber of people who are in our
uniform services. Like these are people
who take the law incredibly seriously,
who work very diligently, who have put
their lives on the line to defend the
nation, to defend all of us. Uh and I
think we owe them the benefit of the
doubt in this capacity here.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, we trust your bureaucracy to stop
crazy things from happening in some
ways, which is ironic, but it's true, I
guess. Yeah. I've
&gt;&gt; trust people, you know, you know, it's
not the faceless bureaucracy that I'm
trusting. It's like these are Americans.
These are exceptional human beings. They
care about what they're doing. This is
their craft. They're not yoloing it. You
know, if you have some cartoon
caricature of who they are, okay, fine.
Maybe from the degeneracy of the last 30
years of media that always paints the
ultimate bad guy as the corrupt
bureaucrat or the corrupt military
official, but that's not reality. Um,
and I think I think they deserve more
from us.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think I think like a
random PhD student in a in a garage is
probably more danger with AI than anyone
in these in these that we were serving
with in the department of war.
&gt;&gt; I don't disagree.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And you know, it's actually
interesting taking the other side of
that. It does seem like recent wars
thanks to AI, thanks to new technologies
are are actually a lot safer, like a lot
less death. Is that is that a trend
you'd hope we should are we going to see
that going forward where hopefully
Americans lose a lot less lives based on
based on this technology?
&gt;&gt; Yes and no. So yes, in the sense that
like yes, this is this is an empirical
trend. I think 70 million people died in
World War II from all causes and
effects. You know, that that's not even
a quantity we can contemplate today. You
know, like hundreds is is is is we we we
struggle with, right? Um the the part
that's no is like the the part I don't
buy the idea that these sorts of robotic
weapons are going to somehow mean that
humans don't have to do the fighting.
You certainly want the robots to draw
first blood. You want them to serve as a
deterrent, but the will of the nation to
actually win and prevail in these
consequences is always going to come
down to brave humans willing to put
themselves in harm's way when the moment
calls for it in order to prevail. So, it
shouldn't let us off the hook of the the
moral weight and the consequence of what
it means to actually fight a war. Which
is why we're a peaceloving nation who
does not want to fight a war. We want to
prevent the wars from happening. We want
to prevent adversaries from having so
much leverage over us like a nuclear
bomb that actually peace is no longer
possible.
&gt;&gt; Well said. So Sean, we started this
podcast to push back against cynics and
the doomers. Uh what's the best case for
an optimistic future for America? What
do we need to get right over the next
decade?
&gt;&gt; Well, you know, I've always said I think
America's greatest risk is not homicide,
it's suicide. Uh and so I I I think
reminding ourselves of what we have in
common and reigniting the national
spirit for innovation and excellence. Um
we are a great nation. There's no nation
who has more to be proud of than we do.
And that is ultimately the case for
optimism. I'd say, you know, one one
more maybe off offthe-wall comment is in
the end, the reason we're going to win
in whatever domain it is is that we're
crazy. You know, even we don't know what
we're going to do when we get punched in
the face. And I think that's actually an
exceptional quality. It speaks to the
plasticity and adaptability of the
American mind uh and and how we
innovate.
&gt;&gt; Alex always told me I'd be very
successful if I didn't get arrested from
a bar fight. So, I guess I guess that's
a good note to end it on. Thanks, Sean.
Thank you, Joe.
