原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x9BNBcP_C7Q

Codex is one of those things where three
months ago, six months ago, it was
trash. If anyone from OpenAI is on the
call and listening to that, I stand by
that 100%. If you have a great
generalpurpose coding agent on your
computer, it's actually really great for
any kind of knowledge work. If it can
write software on its own, it can do any
kind of knowledge work on its own.
&gt;&gt; When I sign on during the day, Codeex is
the first thing I open. It is pulling in
whatever I need from Gmail, Slack,
[music] Notion, Stripe, all of our data
sources. It's where I spend like 80% of
my time working overwhelmingly because
the app itself is just so good.
&gt;&gt; There's a new operating system for how
and where you're going to get your work
done and it's this kind of agent
management interface.
[music]
Hello everybody. Welcome to Codeex Camp.
Codeex for knowledge work. Psyched to
have you. Psyched to have you on this
auspicious GPT 5.5 day after release
day. Hope you're doing well. Um I'm here
with our head of growth, Austin. Austin,
say hello.
&gt;&gt; Hello.
&gt;&gt; We're psyched to have you. We are
psyched to do this. Um Codex is one of
those things where,
you know, three months ago, six months
ago, it was trash. Um, and if anyone
from OpenAI is on the call and listening
to that, I stand by that 100%. Um, and
it was really built for
um, senior engineers uh, doing pair
programming. So, it was um, it would
argue with you, it would make you feel
stupid. It was just it was like a little
autistic like it it didn't have any
emotional intelligence.
And I think OpenAI had this interesting
strategy or this interesting theory
starting with GBT5 that your vibe coding
was going to happen in chatbt and that
was where all that stuff was going to
live and then senior engineers are going
to use codecs to like do all their
programming work but we're going to
hobble the model so it doesn't do
anything bad. It's in a sandbox all that
kind of stuff. And I think basically
what happened is Anthropic figured out
that
having a model that's pretty usable and
fast and smart and also emotionally
intelligence intelligent on your
computer that can access your computer
um is a really really great experience
for programmers. And it means you could
throw away a lot of the old uh stuff
that you used to have in a in a
programming environment where you it was
built for typing code. You could just
type commands into your terminal and
then it would start working. And then I
think what Anthrobic figured out is if
you have a great general purpose, if you
have a great coding agent on your
computer, it's actually really great for
any kind of knowledge work. If it can
write software on its own, it can do any
kind of knowledge work on its own. And
we started to move from this world where
programmers had been delegating um had
been delegating their tasks starting to
delegate their tasks inside of cloud
code to now any kind of knowledge work
is being delegated inside of cloud code
and cloud co-work and all that kind of
stuff. And I think openai they had this
original split. It's like oh you're
going to do all your vibe coding in
chatbt and I think they saw what was
starting to happen with cloud code and
over the last maybe three months or so
they have done this hard pivot on co
codeex where it has gone from a senior
engineer only tool that is really for
pair programming um to I think like it's
it is my daily driver for this kind of
work um I uh I I use codeex for
everything from deep engineering stuff
to writing to recruiting. I do a lot
actually do a fair amount of recruiting.
It's really good for that and I'll give
you some use cases um later. But they
[snorts] sort of figured out that
um having this general purpose agent on
your computer with the ability to write
code, the ability to access your file
system, the ability to have a browser um
and wrapping it in a desktop app is like
the ideal
uh ideal next step for knowledge work.
And I think that they built the best
current version of that. Um, and it what
it is starting to snap into into focus
now is that there's a new operating
system for how and where surface for how
and where you're going to get your work
done. And it's this kind of agent
management interface. And that's whether
or not you're using cloud code or cloud
co-work in the desktop app or codeex in
the desktop app. It's becoming this race
between the model companies where every
each model company has their own surface
like this for agent management, a
desktop app for agent management that's
at its core a programming agent that's
used for knowledge work. Um, Anthropic
has cloud code and cloud co-work.
OpenAI has codeex. XAI recently um
essentially bought cursor um
and uh and Google is the only one that I
mean they have anti-gravity but I don't
think no one is seriously using it for
that yet but I I imagine Google will do
this too and that's the race that is the
race that's happening and so I think for
us who gets who get all the benefits of
uh being able to use these tools
uh it's really important to uh be be
bouncing around between these. So like
using for example using codecs so that
you can feel what it's like to work in
an agent first world because once you
add once you add an agent that is like
the your primary way of accessing and
using software and the internet and all
that kind of stuff, it opens up all this
interesting stuff that wasn't possible
before because you can send your agent
out to go talk to other pieces of
software and come back and um you know
we can get into into more of the details
there but I want to get into like the
more of the concrete use cases but
that's the world that we're starting to
live in. You're doing work on your
computer through codecs or co-work.
And um and your agent is your interface
to a lot of the work that you're doing
and a lot of the a lot of the software
that you use and a lot of the stuff that
you do every day. And uh that's actually
really fun. It's really cool. There's a
lot of good stuff here. And so I wanted
to uh I wanted to bring Austin in to to
help do this because Austin is our head
of growth and I think he had his real
agent pill moment. You tell me Austin,
but probably like three or four months
ago and the agent pill moment was really
cla
on a on a Monday morning being like, "Oh
yeah, I just was on my computer all
weekend. Like I I was like 12 hours a
day. didn't go out or anything because I
was using cloud code and um you started
to use it for all those all the kind of
knowledge work tasks that a that a
growth marketer would and over the last
couple weeks as we've been using 55 and
I've been telling you for a little bit
you should try codeex it seems like
you've you've actually just shifted
everything over to codeex and 55 and so
I think you're a great person to talk
about you know sort of what you're
seeing and how and how that is uh how
that is um how how this has changed how
these agent management interfaces have
changed your workflow and then why you
like codecs and then I would love to get
into some demos of your actual codec
workflow so that we can sort of see
things uh from your perspective.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that sounds great. So I um yes, my
like agent pill moment was spending a
week going deep into cloud code in the
CLI uh probably in like December into
January, hooking it up to everything I
do for work and for my personal life and
finding that I I use Warp as my like CLI
interface. um and finding that the
things it could automate, the things it
could handle for me, and then the way it
could work as a thought partner to make
my work better. It was like this is the
only way I want to do the kind of
knowledge work that requires um
strategic thinking and uh data analysis
and shipping marketing copy, like a
bunch of stuff that can get you spread
out across a bunch of apps and tools
during the day. And in maybe in
February, you you kept nudging me to be
like, "You really should try Codeex.
There were things you liked about it."
And if someone says that at every if
anyone on the team says that, like, I'll
go try it. And I like to push myself and
play around with more engineeringy
tasks, especially to see what these
models are capable of. And so I tried to
build a personal vioded app in Codeex
because that was one of the things that
you said that it was really good for.
And my immediate response was like I
think it is better at building the app,
but I can't tell because it's nothing
has ever made me feel more stupid than
codeex like two months ago. Like I
always I use compounded our compound
engineering plugin that Kieran Classen
made for basically everything including
knowledge work, but especially if I'm
trying to build an app or ship a PR to
the to the site. So I made a plan. in
the plan it comes up with like three
questions and uh for like which
direction we should go and uh I had no
idea what the hell it was talking about.
It was like do you do one of any of
these three and every question? And I
was like, "Please explain this to me um
in more detail." And his response was
basically like, "Why?" Like, "Why don't
you just do what I'm recommending?" And
I found a way to I I basically stayed in
codeex for all engineering stuff because
I I did like the results even if I
didn't love working in it. But I would
say 80% of what I was reaching for was
was cloud code in the CLI. And when we
got our hands on the new GPT model a
month ago, the the the the first thing I
felt was at the very least there's
parody between the latest Opus model and
the latest GPT model for the kind of
knowledge work I do. There's a few
things that Opus does better. There's a
few things that that Codeex does better.
That feels a little more specific to me
even like I I outside of design, which I
still really trust Opus for. um it feels
a little more like, oh, there's some
stuff I like better than this. But the
real differentiator to me is that to me
there's no comparison for how fast and
powerful the codeex desktop app is as
just like an app compared to the claw
desktop app. Like I have never been able
to get uh co-work to work for me. And I
think it's because I've been kind of
ruined by the codeex app. It's so fast.
The sub agents are so good. the way in
which it suggests and then um ships
automations for me is just like it I
can't imagine not using it. I wouldn't
be surprised if any week the cloud
desktop app is like just as good, right?
like um they could ship versions where
it's faster and better, but I I'm now at
the point where when I sign on during
the day, I codeex is the first thing I
open. It is pulling in whatever I need
from Gmail, Slack, Notion, Stripe, all
of our data sources. This morning I was
like, "Oh yeah, we need to do a run of
show for this camp." I messaged Codeex.
I'm like, "Make the run of show." It
knows exactly where to look because
we've already had conversations about
what we're going to talk about today. It
pushed it to notion. It sent it to
Slack. It was perfect. It was like, "Oh,
yeah. This is exactly what we should
do." And um yeah, it's where I spend
like 80% of my time working
overwhelmingly because the app itself is
just so good. And then the model has now
gotten good enough to be the daily
driver for me.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And I I feel I feel the same way.
Um I'd love to get into and and for
people someone who someone asked, are
you we discussing the app or the CLI?
We're discussing the app, the desktop
app, and and I think you're making a
good point that uh both of these
companies, I think, sort of see the
endgame here and they're pushing in the
right direction. And for a while at
least, it's going to be a horse race
where every couple every couple weeks or
every couple months like one is going to
pull ahead and have this like sort of
amazing thing going on and then there
the competitor is going to uh like
Anthropic for example I think will
release something in a couple weeks or a
couple months. I don't have any inside
information into this but that will make
it at least parody if not better and
they're just going to keep trading. Um,
and at some point I think that'll slow
down and you'll end up with sort of
separate ecosystems, but for now they're
actually fairly easy to switch between.
It's not it's not trivial, but it's
pretty easy. Like you can kind of ask
codeex, hey, can you go grab all my
cloud stuff? And it'll go do it.
&gt;&gt; It I think it it feels that way when you
do it. It's funny. I'm in I'm in New
York right now. I usually live in LA.
Most of my friends who are in the
knowledge work space have been asking me
about like what they should be using.
They're all clawed code or cloud desktop
app build. And when I tell them that I
have fully transition to codeex, this
like look of horror shows up on their
face and they're like, do I? They're
kind of like, do I really have to? And I
of course tell them they don't, but I'm
like, you really should right now. You
really should. Like I think you would
get a big benefit from it. And I've been
showing them why. And it's it's
interesting and and to me unsurprising
how resistant people have been to it
because the when you're a knowledge
worker and you have all these new tools,
the cloud desktop app is is game
changing. It's amazing, right? So the
idea that the codeex app is maybe 30 to
40% better is like that's a lot of work.
Um which we can get into kind of how I
migrated. I can show some of that. It
was very easy and the ways that I'm uh
starting to use it. So I'm happy to dive
into that and start sharing my screen
and show
&gt;&gt; why don't you share your screen? Um, I
think yeah, I I kind of agree with you.
It's more of like an emotional thing of
like, oh, I have to learn a whole new
thing or whatever, but it's it's pretty
similar. Yeah, I would love to see some
of your workflows.
&gt;&gt; Cool. So, um, this is the Codex app. I
was going to do like a very very quick
tour. I think a lot of the audience has
seen it, but kind of like where I go and
how I use it. Um, one thing I love about
the Codex app is like I do think it's
much better organized than the Cloud
Desktop app. my the ability to have
these folders with persistent consistent
chats inside of it that I can go check
out. And then especially like the big
differentiator is that because I do
think this is much better for
engineering for like occasionally I will
ship a PR for one of our products. It's
great to not have to switch between uh
the cloud code, the cloud desktop app
and codeex that I can be here. I can be
working on our improving our KPI sheet,
which I'll like show what I was doing
here. And then I can go down to plus one
and ship a PR for plus one. And um the
other thing I found because I did I
tried the new ver like I tried the
update to the cloud desktop app last
week when they when they shipped it and
the the stress test I put on it was make
a go to market plan for our new product
and ship a PR to Sparkle in different
chats. And it it was so clunky and slow.
And when you do stuff like that inside
of codeex, it just works. Like it just
works really quickly and and well and
and that's the thing that like once you
start feeling that, it's very hard for
me to turn away from it. So I have these
different folders for um some like
vibecoded apps that I play around with
for fun for my personal open claw where
I can go and manipulate it here. And
then the one with all of the chats is
this like every growth OS. All this is
is a folder with a bunch of um secrets
and keys. So, it's connected to
everything we use for every and then
some project instructional files that
explain what the every business is, what
we care about, how we like to work
together. Um, it has some like reviewer
agents inside of it that are all
informed by how compound engineering
works. Inside of compound engineering,
uh, Kieran's plugin, there is a compound
engineering review step. once you do
some work um that reviews for like
security and a few different things that
are oftentimes not as helpful for like
I'm doing a strategic plan for a go-to
market initiative and so inside of here
there's like a fork for it for strategic
alignment with a company goals for data
um data accuracy and uh having that
inside of this folder means that as I'm
making plans I can get reviews uh from
the model in like a targeted way um And
so the first thing I wanted to show is
like how I was talking to our our
editor-in chief Kate yesterday to show
her like how I would recommend getting
started in codeex. And this is my
recommended prompt. I I'm happy to put
it in the chat for people. We can uh put
it in the email as well. Um and so all I
did was I'm putting in the prompts here.
I only have post and panelist access so
I'll send it later or something.
&gt;&gt; You can't um read. Okay. Yeah, maybe
read it out. We can all agree that
housing is expensive. Rent or mortgage
doesn't matter what you're paying. It
stings [music] every month. But Built
can make it feel a little better. Build
started out by rewarding members [music]
for their rent. Now, as of 2026, Built
members can also earn points on mortgage
payments wherever [music] they live.
Every housing payment earns points you
can use toward flights with top travel
partners like United and Hyatt, Lift
[music] Rides, Amazon.com purchases, and
so much more. This is actually pretty
cool, and I have some friends that use
[music] this and like it a lot.
Something that's underrated is that
built members also get access to a
[music] neighborhood concierge. They can
make restaurant reservations, book
fitness classes, and find new local
spots, [music]
all while still rewarding you at 45,000
merchant partners. It's like having a
personal assistant baked into where you
[music] live. It's simple. Being a
renter and now owning a home is better
with built. [music] Make sure to use our
URL so they know we sent you. And now
back to the episode.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Um, okay. I can zoom in as
well, I think. There we go. Um, so
through the plug-in tool with codeex, I
had went in and man and like did the
manual clicks to connect all the tools I
use every day like Gmail, Slack, notion,
and then I went to a new chat inside of
this folder that was built through cloud
code. Cloud code built this whole every
growth OS system. There's a cloud MD
file in there and it's saved locally.
it's also um synced and then pushed to
to GitHub and so I just opened that
project inside of Codeex when I started
working here and I uh start a compound
engineering brainstorm workflow because
it is again just kind of like a thing I
reach for of let let's think about this
thing together me and the me and the
model and basically what I said is like
go take a look at the things I use the
most which are notion Slack and Gmail
and think of some automations that would
help me with my work I I find that when
I'm trying something new, whether it's a
model or an app. Um, having an agent,
having a very smart frontier model, like
tell me how to use it, tell me what it
should do is like exactly where I want
to start rather than thinking of it
myself. And I usually start here.
Sometimes I will describe a very
specific problem. But this is very
helpful for me and I think a good
generic prop for people to start with.
And uh, Codeex comes back. It looks at
what's going on for me and for the
company right now. And um I thought
these were really good that like um it
has this kind of follow-up radar. This
is a big thing that happens with people
who do knowledge work, who do
partnerships, who do social media
marketing that there's all this stuff
coming at you across a bunch of
different sources. Like what if it
handled the triage for you? Um what if
it had this kind of like command sensor
when we run a a camp or an event which
usually requires a bunch of moving
pieces and moving parts? uh like Dan
mentioned for recruiting and hiring. We
don't use a tool like Ashby or
something, we kind of have it all synced
through notion because uh apps like this
and agents can kind of like handle a lot
of the pipeline and tracking work for us
and you can just ask it to automate it
for you. And so it it does that and it
asks me like which ones look good, what
do you want to tweak? For the for the
sake of this demo, I didn't give it any
real feedback. I was like, "Looks good."
And um this is actually the thing I've
I've always been most impressed with
codeex for and and for the models is
that it's like great, I made this
automation for you. And I do find that
they just work incredibly well. They
require very little tweaking to be like
this is a thing I would and do use every
day of there's this set of instructions
that it comes up with based on what it
knows about me. I can change when it
runs. I can give it additional insights.
I can connect it to other things, but
mostly it just works. There's there's
one that works for me that just at the
end of each day now compiles all of the
stuff that I haven't responded to yet.
Drafts the replies and we can kind of
like knock it out together of what to
say or like actually all I need to do is
just give like a thumbs up Slack
reaction to something and it'll do that
for me. It's kind of like a like a dumb
agent. Like I think of agents like this
is like the dumb ones that just do the
right thing every time and then the
smart ones like an open claw or a plus
one the products we have coming that's
like you'll work back and forth with it
and like have a have like a more of like
a creative strategic partner and Codex
is good at building both and I can I can
show kind of like the smart agent setup
but if someone is looking to be like can
I see what this thing can do to help me
with knowledge work I would start here
in like a brainstorming automation state
because it is And I think you'll also be
surprised by how fast it is and you're
like, "Oh, I'm starting to get what this
thing could do."
&gt;&gt; This is so sick. I Your your codeex
usage is far surpassing mine in terms of
interestingness. Uh [laughter]
I'm getting a lot of ideas. Um I want to
just actually pause here. Normally we
take questions at the end, but I think
it would be kind of interesting if you
have a question about what Austin has
just showed. it would be nice to let
people come up and um just ask a
question or two just to see what the
vibe of the room is like. Um so please
raise your hand uh if you have a
question and we will uh call on you. Uh
Margaret, welcome. Uh please uh
introduce yourself and ask your
question.
&gt;&gt; Hi, can you hear me? I'm Margaret. I'm
in Plymouth. Um and my question is what
is your review step look like? So it's
um saying don't send postarch archive or
modify without explicit approval. So
what does that look like? Is that like
do you call up say hey let's do the
review flow now or is it doing push
notifications to your phone or what?
Thanks.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So um for this what I prefer and I
was actually talking to a friend at
dinner last night who said they did the
same thing on their own. They came up
with this too is like everything I I
work primarily in codeex. I do all the
drafting and setup in codeex and then
it's helpful for my brain to have the
final review step actually live in the
external app. So it will draft all the
Slack messages and then I can go to
Slack where Slack has that like draft
reply um tab and I can go and knock them
out. And I do find that it it like uh
freshens up my my brain a bit to be like
here's where I'll just make sure that
this is what I want to send to a human
being. Uh same thing for email. It like
creates all of these drafts in uh in
Gmail and I'll actually go open Gmail
and look at them and and knock them out.
I I know some other people who just have
it actually come up inside of codeex and
they're like, "Yeah, sure. Send it. It
looks good there." Um I do the same
thing for strategic planning. it pushes
to a either proof doc uh the the like
agent friendly markdown file that Dan
made or a notion doc. I use them for
some different things and I I just like
for like the last pass before humans
engage with it to step away from this um
agentic space and have a final check in
another surface. That's really the only
time that I'm like leaving the app to do
something.
&gt;&gt; That's brilliant. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Sweet. All right, we'll do one more and
then we'll keep going. Alex, please uh
uh introduce yourself and ask your
question.
&gt;&gt; Hi, uh my name is Alex. I'm a musician
and uh I I do a lot of gigs and get uh
emails from clients all the time. Uh so
I have to sort my leads from, you know,
my newsletters and all thatformational
stuff. So, how do you make sure that you
prompt um uh codecs to um keep those
emails safe for me, the ones that you
know that require a personalized
response and and um I just want to make
sure that you know I don't send
something that, you know, loses me money
or something.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, so for me personally, I rely a
lot on Kora, the internal like the the
app that uh Kieran runs at every for
like the AI email assistant that's a
part of the every subscription. It's
it's really helpful now that inside of
Kora there is a um like a CLI and an API
connector that I can work in codeex and
tell it tell Kora which is managing my
email filtering and uh my email rules
what I want and what I value. Um, the
way I do that is the same thing I would
recommend whether you use Kora or not,
which is to have the agent interview you
to get an understanding of what the
rules should be. I always find that I
get a better result rather than saying
what I think the rules should be. Um,
and so I will I'll do a brain dump using
Monologue, our speech to text app,
saying, "Here's the problem I'm facing.
My email's a mess. Let's figure out how
to triage it." I think it would work
perfectly well if you wanted to try
starting it as an automation in in
codeex or a rule in codeex of saying
like I think these are the things I want
to make sure I get I think these are the
rules I want to set of like never send
anything for me only draft I think I
want to go through all emails at 3M on
on weekdays but um go take a look at all
my email go do a search spawn sub agents
to do a search I'm always telling codeex
to spawn sub aents to do different types
of work um across different workflows
and then um come back with a plan. Uh
come back with a plan for like how
you're going to set up my my email and
then um you can read the plan and see,
oh, it looks like it's actually going to
um brief or summarize or autoarchchive
something that might lead to making
money for you. And that's where you can
tweak it. And then uh the other step I
take is that I set um reminders for
myself um in I use to-d doists for all
of my like reminder task tracking. It's
also connected to codeex. So I can just
message codeex or message my open claw
and say like just add this reminder to
my schedule to to check how the new
automation is working um and like do do
an audit of it so you can see like it's
been 72 hours. Let's see if I'm see if
I've missed anything. You can prompt the
model to see like what have you been
archiving. And I find that really
helpful. But I I I'm really excited by
all of the work our product GMs at every
have been doing to make it so that I can
just prompt codeex or cloud code or you
know inside of cursor any agent to
manipulate those apps how I want. It
works really well with with uh our other
tools also.
&gt;&gt; Thanks Alex. I will I will add to that
like one of the things that we found
basically because Austin started doing
it I sort of was like oh that's really
interesting is that Austin started we
have plus ones which is our hosted
openclaw and Austin started setting up
his plus ones with codecs and cloud code
and realized that it's just a much
better experience so rather than for
example the earlier version of plus ones
we had like a whole dashboard and a
whole onboarding experience
where you had to kind of manually click
a bunch of buttons and give it a lot of
context. It's much easier if we just
expose um plus ones via a CLI to uh
codeex or cloud code and then you can
just like talk to codeex and it will
take everything it knows about you from
your computer and your past
conversations and throw it into um throw
it into a plus one setup and and
Austin's showing this and it's it's like
a it's really powerful and it's it's
part of what I'm saying about how the
world is changing when you assume every
user has access to an agent like this.
uh because we don't have to have a
settings dashboard. We don't have to
have an onboarding experience. Um we
don't have to gather as much context
manually. It can just be given to us for
free by codeex. And that's really
interesting.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. One of my favorite use cases was I
got I got really inspired by this
interview Clarebo did with Lenny where
she said how much of a breakthrough she
had when she stopped trying to just use
an individual open claw as like a master
supercharged open claw and had this
suite of six like specified open claws.
I think that applies to any kind of like
agent like there's the new uh chatbt
like provisional agents like I I got
hooked on that. I think Cla's point was
really good and my path towards making
this suite of agents to help with the
growth function at every was just going
to codeex going to this folder. Um I I
actually just sent it the transcript of
Claire's interview with Lenny and said
like I want to do this too given
everything you know about me and my
work. Um make a plan to suggest six
agents that we should provision into our
Slack. Um, consider the fact that we
might want to make some of them notion
custom agents, which I find work really
well, is just like do the same thing
every day, every time. Some of them
might need to be smarter automations,
but like do that, come up with a plan.
The planet made was really good and like
I tweaked it a bit um after seeing it,
but there's that. And then now I have
this suite of six agents in our in our
Slack that that work really well for me.
They still break. Like I I find when
you're making open calls and personal
agents right now, like they're going to
you should accept they're going to break
a bit. But the really powerful thing is
that rather than going back and forth
with the agent or getting frustrated, um
I just go to Codex and I'm like I I
either screenshot or I can at Slack in
Codeex and say like go find this
conversation where this stupid thing
happened and fix it. And it it does a
really good job of just like changing
the architecture of the agent and making
a fix from there.
I love that. Um, yeah, it's it's just a
it's such a it's such a step change in
how you work and uh now now I want to
paste that CLA interview too.
&gt;&gt; Um, [laughter]
&gt;&gt; I want I want to show one I want to show
one thing that I like this is like kind
of actually my favorite way to use this
stuff for for knowledge work. Um, it's a
thing that I like wish I had for so much
of my career because this is one of the
most like time consuming to me like
frustrating things about about knowledge
work is that we are uh doing a a real go
to market market public launch for plus
one soon. We're very excited about it
and we've been having a bunch of
internal meetings and Slack
conversations around like how are we
taking this to market? What is the
strategy? What are we going to do? Um,
and we've done all of the work that like
kind of like only humans can do, the
like marketing case, the business case,
the like the narratives and stuff. Not
all of it is as refined as it needs to
be because it still needs to be refined,
but it's all sitting somewhere. And um,
I had all these plans this week to make
the go to market plan, which is like one
thing I'm responsible for. And an
inevitable thing that happens that
happens in everyone's job is like all
this stuff came up like I've got to do
interviews for hiring. We found out the
release date for the new JBT model. Um
and so I had a day I think it was
Tuesday in between meetings where I'm
just kind of like I'm prompting codeex
this way of hey I I I've kind of done
most of the work right like in our
notion every meeting is recorded in a
single place and all the transcripts are
there. We've can we talked about this a
bunch in Slack. I have a template for a
go to market plan that I really like and
I can go to codeex and say like could
you just make the plan like and in my
head what I'm thinking is like maybe
it'll get like a six out of 10 or a
seven out of 10 and we can keep nudging
and I can keep like going along and so
it uh it does that. What I'm asking for
is like why don't you start by make
doing the compound engineering
brainstorm step to to just ship a proof
doc and I can see how close you are and
um I one thing that it doesn't really do
super well unless I tell it to and I
want to install this as like a a
workflow is it it doesn't go read our
calendar of upcoming posts and launches
and so as it was going I was like oh you
always forget this this is the message
I'm sending of like actually look at
everything that's scheduled because I
have to account for that in the go to
market plan Um, and then it makes a uh
makes a plan as a proof talk. I went and
looked at it and I was like again I I
maybe have five minutes in between
meetings and I'm like this is really
good. Like you kind of have every you
have the architecture enough that um I
want you to like factor in one other
change and then just ship the plan to
notion. and the plan it shipped to
notion. I was reading it and I was like
this is basically
80 to 90% of the way there. And that's
that's not because it I'm relying on the
model to come up with our go to market
strategy. It's that I'm relying on the
model to um look at all of the things
that we've already said and thought
about the go to market strategy, piece
it together, and then review it, right?
Come with what will work with what's
not. There's a lot of important context
loading that happens here where like it
knows what our target ICP is. It knows
what our goals are. It knows how we
think about narrative positioning. And
before this was possible, the only thing
I could have done was either block off a
whole day to sit and do this or get done
with my work for the day at like 6 or 7
and then stay up all night writing this.
And this has been such a game changer
for me. And the the other part of it
that I think I found is really helpful
is that I I don't make this plan for
humans. I make this plan for humans and
agents and primarily for humans to
understand through agents. And so when I
sent it to the team working on the go to
market, they can read it and it's like
digestible to humans. But the the thing
that it's really helpful for is like
it's the full plan sectioned off
allin-one. And so Brandon, our COO,
who's like deep in this product, can ask
his plus one, can ask codeex, you know,
it's called code, like let me know what
Austin's plan is, like summarize it for
me. Let me know the business case.
Brandon has to come up with the pricing
modeling for the plan so he can work
with an agent against the plan. And um
as someone who spent so much time in my
career thinking about like literally how
the the proposal or go to market
document looks like how is it going to
look when I present to the CEO like this
two-page plan for for like a for a
budget I'm asking for like is it going
to make sense to their eyes and like
really fine-tuning stuff. Giving up on
that and just saying like is the plan
really good and is it going to make
sense to like Dan's agent if he approves
it. Um for to me makes me work faster.
It makes the work better. It means that
I don't have to think about all this
like kind of dumb stuff that doesn't
matter. Um that like it's to me a much
more like powerful and fun way to work.
&gt;&gt; I totally totally agree with that. You
said so many things that are interesting
there. The first one is just normalize
sending agent documents around. Um and
that's why we have proof. Uh it's just
such an easy way to send the markdown
documents that we generate to each other
and and to review them together. And
it's like there I think there's this
whole strand of AI stuff that's like
make AI write in your voice. We even do
this with Spiral, but there's this other
strand of just like normalize AI writing
because I would actually prefer to read
your agents writing than your writing in
a lot of cases because I know that it's
just easier for you to get all that that
thinking together in a format I can read
if you if you have your agent write it.
The thing I care about is do you stand
by it? Have you thought about it? And if
I talk to you about it, will it be clear
that if I talk about a particular bullet
point in it, like you've thought that
through? And as long as we have the
trust that that's going to be the case,
then I absolutely prefer the the agent
version.
&gt;&gt; In the future, humans face a new
problem. What do you do when your
computer is doing your work for you? One
answer, take a claw walk. An idea by
every
[music]
the only subscription you need to stay
at the edge of AI.
&gt;&gt; Totally. Like uh my friend Rachel Carden
who runs the great like Substack
newsletter link bio about uh social
media had had a really good piece this
week about frustrations for um uh people
working in social for like every like
this pressure they feel that everything
has to run through AI and the quality
going down and one reason why is that
there's that dichotomy of like what do
you actually stand behind like are you
running something through AI and you
like you know maybe your manager did it
and they don't even know what it what it
said. And uh the thing I love about
working at Every is like you you show up
to a meeting, you you've like shared an
AI um written document ahead of time and
the expectation is that you're going to
stand behind all of it. That someone
will ask a question of what's in that
document. And you if you say like, "Oh,
I didn't even know that was in there."
It's like you're you're you're exposed,
right? But the other nice thing is that
we continue to keep investing in skills
and workflows and tools to kind of
ensure that never happens. Like I have
rules inside of this project file to be
like if uh don't don't add anything that
I haven't like said in another context.
I want your suggestion. Send your
suggestions to me in the chat, but don't
put it in a in a document. And like um
depending on how big the context gets,
these models can follow or not follow
those rules, which is another reason why
I always leave codeex for that final
review before it goes to the like humans
I work with.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think that that that last
thing that that that I want to point out
that you said is like a lot of the time
that you spend working is about taking
thinking you've already done and putting
it into a form that other people can
read and consume.
And the important part is doing the
thinking
there. There is something obviously
about like I love writing. Writing is a
good way of thinking. Um, and sometimes
you actually want to do the writing
yourself because you want to think about
it for certain types of things and
certain types of people, but there's a
lot of stuff like company strategy where
a lot of the thinking happens out loud
in meetings. And there's also times like
for example, I'm writing something
that's sort of like a it's like a
retrospective on the last three and a
half years of AI and like where I think
we're going. And
that's so hard to sit down and write,
but it's much easier to just like
dictate. So, I just took a monologue
and it I'm using the AI to help me like
figure out what I'm really trying to
say. And in in those cases, I think it's
just so nice to record stuff, give Codex
access to everything, and then just have
it spit out a strategy doc and go
through it to make sure it it's stuff
you agree with. But it's um such a
timesaver. And especially if you're
someone who like Austin or like me, like
you're in meetings a lot and so you
don't necessarily have huge chunks of
time in your day to like go do a big
strategy document because you're just
trying to stay on top of whatever is
happening. It helps you do that in the
cracks of your day and do a lot of that
thinking. And I just I love it for that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, me too. Um, I want to show one
more thing before we get into more
questions because like I wanted to show
kind of like a a more like mix of
knowledge work and engineering stuff
that like would never have been possible
without these kinds of tools and that I
really love codeex for which is I've
been rebuilding our um KPI tracker every
week. Um, I'll just like show it here
for a bit. So um we have so many
different parts of our business at uh at
Eb and uh it's very difficult to
get all of those um data points in one
source of truth in a traditional tool
like even postg which I really like and
a lot of our data runs through it to get
one dashboard that is again both human
and human and agentf facing that is up
to date with all of the metrics we care
out. I I haven't found a great solution
for just like, you know, going to post
and having it having it do it. So um we
I've been rebuilding our KPI sheets
inside of notion with the goal in mind
of any anyone can point their agent to
look at it and see how are new paid
subscription trials doing how are page
views doing how is uh monologue iOS MR
doing all versus plan all of this stuff
because one it helps you work as a human
but it also really helps you automate
agentic work so that you can say like if
your agencies that we're tracking behind
and on SEO for a keyword we should be
winning on, they can go just like ship a
bunch of landing pages for us to try to
win more on it if the if the source of
truths are good. And so I have been
doing this big kind of like to me
complex uh workflow problem in codeex of
let's build this sheet together, let's
have it live in a notion database that
all of our agents can point at. And I've
done a bunch of different versions of
it. The first version was like can
codeex oneshot this, right? like it has
all the API keys, it has everything. I'm
happy to give it the context on like how
we measure MR and everything. And each
time it was like a little off. It was
like maybe 5 to 10% off of the
formatting, the numbers, the framing.
And our MR MR number can't be 5% off.
Like we can't run a business with a
source of truth that's even 3% off. It
has to be just exactly right. And so the
thing that I forced myself to do and
it's weird now I'm like it feels so
stupid that I have to do this but it
makes sense is like I'm going column by
column end to end to ensure each column
is exactly right and defensible because
it's the only way that we can run and
grow the business reliably and
especially the only way we can we can
confidently unleash agents to go take
actions against what's happening in that
KPI sheet. And um it's it's like it's so
interesting to me that I'm frustrated
that I have to do this that the that the
model can't do it for me. Um but it's
just because of how like powerful these
models are gotten that I expect it to be
able to do it. But um and this is a
thing where I'm like you know it's using
um notion's workers tool which is this
like dev tool. It's a build always on
tool calls of our stripe of our social
um it's like creating little scripts and
stuff all stuff I don't really
understand but I understand the outputs.
I understand that the output is a notion
database that updates every six hours
with all of our metrics and it's just
nice that I can do that and I don't need
to hire a consultant to do it or like I
don't need to like um uh yeah take away
from our uh like our engineers times
that that work on our data like I can do
this now and I can do it just by like
prompting the model and understanding
how the metrics are supposed to work.
&gt;&gt; It's amazing. Uh, I can't wait. Is the
Do you think it'll be ready on Monday?
&gt;&gt; It'll be ready on Monday. Yeah. [ __ ]
yeah.
&gt;&gt; Feeling really good.
&gt;&gt; Because we've been I mean just having It
turns out that figuring out how much
money you're making and how much you've
grown is truly a philosophical question,
you know? Um, and you actually do need
to like go in and like set that frame.
Um, and so we've been dealing with an
outdated sheet because it's like it's
pulling numbers, but is are the numbers
correct? you know, even even outside of
AI. Um, and and there's no one way to,
for example, measure your MR, you just
want to do it the same way every time.
So, you have to decide. And, uh, that's
kind of it's kind of wild that it's like
almost impossible to tell how much money
you made in an objective way. You have
to just like pick. But anyway, uh,
that's just the way my brain works. I
want to say before we get into
questions, one other thing that I use
this for that was it like blew my mind
from a knowledge work perspective is
recruiting. So, we're hiring a lot
and we were looking for an L &amp; D head of
L &amp; D, someone to help us run courses.
And there's this company in New York
called General Assembly. And when I
think about people who've run like
really great courses about technology to
teach people how to get hands-on with
like programming or design or anything
like that, like they're the company that
I think of from the like 2010s in New
York. And so I
my theory was that if we're hiring
someone to do like build our courses,
they would probably have a good person
probably would have worked at GA and
Jason. Yes. Um
and
I think GA's quality has gone up and
down, but at the beginning they were
amazing. Um, and uh, so what I did was I
just said to Codex, "Hey, like can you
find can you just get a list of GA
alums? I'm like hiring an an L &amp; D
director and then I want you to filter
and sort the list by people who have
subsequently gotten into AI
and it did it like it just gave me a
list of people. The first one I clicked
on, it was like I was like, "This guy is
perfect." And then I looked and he
followed me on Twitter, so I just DM'd
him. And like I don't know if we're
gonna end up working with him, but like
it was just one of those holy [ __ ] light
bulb moments where normally what we're
doing is sorting through a ton of
applications and like trying to find the
right person. And I we're still going to
do that, but especially for any kind of
like outbound effort, it can kind of
find that needle in the haststack that
you're looking for really really well.
So, I highly highly recommend um okay,
we've got about 10 minutes left. Um and
I want to take some more time for
questions. So, if you got a question,
please uh uh please raise your hand. One
thing that we have not gotten to
actually is that if you are here, you
are getting codeex credits. Uh Austin,
do you want to uh go through that really
quick?
&gt;&gt; Yes. So, uh OpenAI has given us a code.
I'm about to drop into the chat for 250
attendees of this camp to get a free
month of ChatGB to chat GBT Pro lights.
That's about a $100 value. Um, and you
can redeem it at this link that uh we
will drop in the chat right now.
&gt;&gt; Sick.
&gt;&gt; Dan Dan, I'm actually gonna I'm going to
slack it to you so you can drop it in
the chat because for some reason I don't
have access.
&gt;&gt; Okay, I'll do that. Um, so yes, this is
this is our gift to you as every
subscribers. We try to do stuff like
this all the time. We've been we've
given out I think we've done um cursor
credits. We've done we've done a lot a
lot of other stuff. We have more stuff
like this coming. So we just want you to
be able to try these tools. Be at the
edge with us. And um we just love having
you as as subscribers. So here is the
link. It's $100. Oh, notion. Yes, we did
give out Notion. It's $100.
um
and
uh check it out. We will send it out in
an email. We may actually we may not
send it out in an email because it's
only 200 it's limited to 250 people and
that's pretty much exactly the number of
people who are here. So if there's any
left we will send it. Um if there is one
person there's 251 people here. So
there's
if uh that person if you let us know
we'll figure something out for you. Um
interesting. Not available on my plan.
Um
okay. Uh we will have to deal with this.
Uh let us
let us figure out what to do what to do
here. So
correction this is only if you do not
have a plan. This is for new users and
we'll try to we'll try to get something
for existing users and send it out as
soon as we can.
Cool. All right, let's do some
questions. Um
Rich, please ask your question.
So I I saw at the beginning you were
using compound engineering as kind of
part of your workflow.
Are you using kind of like the
offtheshelf plugin or is there tweaks to
it and kind of where does that work and
maybe not work when you're outside of
the you know kind of code creation
workflow?
So I I find that there's no um
overwhelming need to fork your own
version of compound engineering. I used
it for a long time um for all of my
knowledge work and it was extremely
powerful for me. And then um maybe about
two months ago, the the main thing I
noticed was reading the agents response
to especially the review stage of
watching the reviewers that Kieran and
Trevan had built that are very specific
to engineering.
It I was like, oh this like the thing
you'll see the agent do is say like um
I'm supposed to go through through this
review step. It looks like it's designed
for engineering. it's thinking about
security and front-end design when this
is a go-to market plan. The agent will
then like change the path. The agent
will be like, I'm going to review this
for something else rather than reviewing
it for security. And so the thing that I
did was I went and forked a version of
it that is actually um publicly
available on our GitHub called compound
knowledge which is uh built exclusively
from me taking the compound engineering
plugin which is also public and you can
go for it and going inside of I think I
started in cloud code now I update it
update it in codeex and saying like I
want to tweak this to general knowledge
work. And this is the thing I was I was
referencing around the like reviewers
being much more specific to knowledge
work around like strategic alignment and
and data accuracy. I think more than
anything, this is like a really fun way
to learn um and a fun way to like kind
of like push yourself on using models.
You're welcome just to go use this one.
We'll include it in the in the follow-up
email to the camp. Um but I think it's a
cool like I learned a ton just by doing
this. I had never made like a plugin
like this before. Um, and to make your
own version of say you do like social
media marketing and you want to make
sure all the reviews go through your
style guide, your like past performance.
Um, I I got a ton out of operating this
way. If you just want the compound
engineering to make your work better, it
absolutely works really really well for
knowledge work just kind of out of the
box.
&gt;&gt; Got it. Yeah. No, interesting.
particularly using kind of all the the
end of step pieces like compound that
that's still
apparently a valuable step for you.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, the compound step is is really
valuable. We have um inside of our
notion a goto database of after you're
done with a session um you can send the
learnings from the session to actually a
teamwide shared compound source of
truth. Um, whenever I'm done with any
session in codeex or cloud code, the
agents are instructed to ask me, should
we compound this, save it somewhere for
the learning, and should we turn any
workflow from this session into a skill
so that we um can just do it
automatically each time?
&gt;&gt; Got it. Cool. No, I'll check that out.
Thanks.
&gt;&gt; Cool.
All right, Rory, please introduce
yourself and ask your question.
&gt;&gt; Hi, my name is Rory and I'm in your
head. Um, are there anything uh about
the way you work at every um like maybe
taking some time after meetings like
getting them a few minutes early so that
you can do those things that
um you'd recommend to teams that are
adopting workflows like yours?
Is that clear?
&gt;&gt; Uh yeah, I think so. Like um but to say
it back to you, like what what I'm
hearing, which is like a very real
challenge here, is that um it's that
it's so exciting and tempting and
alluring to like spend a lot of your day
playing with stuff. also spend a lot of
your day continuing to push on like if I
just get this automation right or this
tool right, my work is going to be like
a hundred times better and easier. And I
actually find myself a lot like on a lot
of days spending most of my time not in
meetings trying to build really good
tools and automations that work well and
not making the time to do the actual
like tasks that have to push the the
business forward like like uh shipping
the social posts for the day or or
whatever. And I I don't really have like
an awesome answer for it outside of the
fact that like the the playing around
one is like kind of core to how we
operate at every it's it's a thing that
Dan like pushes all of us to do. It's
one reason why I love working here. It's
also like to me the best way to learn
and and makes me better at everything I
do. And then um the the the only kind of
like guidance I've given myself is that
like these automations in codecs keep me
on track to get the work done so that
when I'm too deep in um in like playing
around and building this like there's
like a social automation tool I'm
working on that I've been like deep in
for a while. Um the codeex automations
make it so that I like you know make
sure Brandon gets what he needs for this
like um some like bisdev plan we're
we're doing. I I do find myself
overindexing on learning and and playing
because of how exciting and powerful the
models have been and that more I have to
p like continue to pull myself into the
the like required day-to-day tasks and
the the urgent stuff that's happening.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And I I also sort of read your
question, Rory, and you tell me if this
is wrong, but as like how do we do more
of the AI stuff, the more of the playing
even to even get started on this stuff
in our day-to-day uh if we're like busy
all the time. And I and what are the
organizational practices that we have
for that? And yeah, I just think like
Austin said, like it's just like a
culture. It's a cultural thing. Um we
just love playing around and that's like
that's part of our job. Um, and I think
there's this
there's this thing happening right now
where the tools and the workflows are
changing so fast that
just focusing on how your job currently
works, you can run as fast as possible
and someone using a new tool with a new
paradigm and a new workflow is just
going to beat you by default. And so if
you just give yourself some time to play
around, it may feel like a waste of
time, but you're leveling yourself up to
a different game at a different level.
And I think that's really important. And
some of the organizational practices
that we have to help people do that are
really around. And so one of the things
we do twice a year is called think week.
Um and we just literally don't do any of
our day-to-day work and we just spend a
week together just like playing around
with new stuff and building stuff and
learning and and being together. And you
don't necessarily have to do a whole
week of that, but um I think it's really
good to maybe do that once a quarter for
a day or something like that. Um, and
just give people this the time and space
too if if you can.
Sweet. Um, all right y'all. So, that is
our program for today. Thank you for
coming. Uh, we love seeing you. We love
doing this with you. Remember, every is
the only subscription you need to stay
at the edge of AI. We would love it if
today you would go tell one of your
friends to go subscribe to every. Uh, we
want to get more people in here. We just
think we're we're right at this amazing
point in history where we get to surf,
ride this big wave together and figure
it out together. And um, please please
tell your friends.
&gt;&gt; See you.
&gt;&gt; Thanks y'all.
&gt;&gt; Oh my gosh, folks. You absolutely
positively have to smash that like
button and subscribe to AI and I. Why?
Because this show is the epitome of
awesomeness. It's like finding a
treasure chest in your backyard, but
instead of gold, it's filled with pure
unadulterated knowledge bombs about chat
GPT. Every episode is a roller coaster
of emotions, insights, and laughter that
will leave you on the edge of your seat,
craving for more. It's not just a show.
It's a journey into the future with Dan
Shipper as the captain of the spaceship.
So, do yourself a favor, hit like, smash
subscribe, and strap in for the ride of
your life. And now, without any further
ado, let me just say, Dan, I'm
absolutely hopelessly in love with you.
