原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=76v7xbi_USc

You could consider this as mutiny. If
you went to them and you said, "Hey,
my manager is bad. I don't want to
report to this person. Do you have any
examples of of this kind of escalation
coming to you?"
&gt;&gt; All the time. All the time. One of the
hardest things for people to understand
is I've identified a legitimate weakness
in my boss. I go to my skip. Why doesn't
he do something?
Well, if you come to me with a weakness
in one of my employees,
there is
subconsciously this process that goes on
that says, "I have two choices. I can
believe that you're overly sensitive and
high maintenance.
In which case, I don't really have a
problem. You're the problem.
And you know, you're two levels down for
me. So, if you quit, the manager has to
do the back fill. And I can tell the
manager, you know, Ryan was here. he
said this, that, and the other. Maybe
you can work with him. And that's
exactly what you don't want is me
ratting you out. But I can make it my
manager's problem. On the other hand, if
I agree with you and I'm like, you know
what? This this manager I have really
isn't that good. Now I have three
problems. This is really bad for me.
One, I have to decide what to do with my
manager. Maybe I have to manage them
out. Two, if I do manage them out, I
have to hire and train somebody else.
And three, while they're gone, I have to
do all their work myself. So, you can
see why even if it's subconscious, I
have a lot of reasons not to listen or
not to believe very easily. So, mutiny,
let's talk about mutiny.
If you want to see it as a mutiny, we've
talked about pirates already.
Never mutiny alone.
If you want that to work, if you really
want to say this manager is bad and we
have a problem,
take two or three people or send two or
three people in sequence. Find some of
your co-workers who are willing to speak
up because I will give you an example.
It really bothers me. I had a leader who
was
treating the women on his team like
crap. Now, he wasn't doing that in front
of me,
but it turns out it was true.
Well, it took a long time
for the different rumors to bubble up to
me enough to where I'm like, I'm hearing
bad things. And then I went and talked
to several of the women and I'm like, so
in working with this person, I'm hearing
and they're like, oh yeah.
Well, then I was like, oh, okay, I've
been blind to a problem. I need to act
on it.
Had any one of them come to me early and
said, "This person's a problem. They're
doing this, that, and the other." I
probably wouldn't have listened
because it was a lone report. But when
several of those reports came up, then
I'm like, "Oh I've been missing
something." So if you want to hold a
mutiny, go together, right? Like even if
it's Zelda, like it's it's dangerous to
go alone, take this. Take other people.
&gt;&gt; I see. Okay. So if let's say there's a
high performing IC
&gt;&gt; who is reporting to a manager and say
the fact is that that manager has some
shortcomings in in their abilities
&gt;&gt; you would say don't go immediately to
the skip first build allies with some of
the other people and say hey are you
also seeing this with this person and
&gt;&gt; if you can yeah you want to talk to them
and say hey do you see what I see well
one thing is that's a way to sanity
check
I'm really struggling with our boss in
this area, do you are you having that
problem? And if they say, "No, I get
along with them, great, and here's how."
Then maybe you can learn and adjust.
That's the style thing. Whereas if
they're like, "Oh, yeah."
Then the hardest next hurdle is are they
willing to speak up? Because a lot of
people aren't. But if they know that
you're going to go first and play ring
leader, like I will go talk to our skip,
but I'm going to tell our skip. They can
verify my story by talking to you or and
and also to Sally or Fred or Rajie.
Most managers, if you go to them and
say, "Look, I know that my saying the
boss is a weak link is uncomfortable and
difficult for you, but these three
people are all willing to share similar
stories. Would you consider at least
talking to them?
Most managers will do that. Most, you
know, not all. There's no there's no
guarantees when you're dealing with
people." I mean that's yeah that's the
immediate thing I imagine is let's say I
was that IC and then I went to other
people and we all kind of knew that that
person had a shortcoming
it there's the difference between that
that water cooler talk and saying yeah
this person's disorganized yeah he keeps
doing that compared to hey I'm going to
go to his boss now and we're gonna we're
going to make take this up a notch
because also there's this this delicate
balance which is all these people still
report to that person. So now
&gt;&gt; if you were to get caught at any point
in this process, you might worry about
retribution or something if you're
wrong.
&gt;&gt; Um what about the path of because that
this is a this is a lot. I mean your man
needs to be pretty bad if you do this.
What about the approach of you say,
"Hey, it's just me and him." and you
want to go to the skip and say, "Hey,
Ethan, um, you know, nothing nothing
personal with the person that I'm
reporting to, but I see a better
business case for me to go to another
team or, you know, something like that
where you word it and say, I you know,
don't don't think poorly of this
manager, but I'll be more productive
somewhere else for your org." What about
that approach rather than the
&gt;&gt; Well, you're blending two approaches. Um
the first of which is
remember we talked about the story you
tell versus the story that may be true.
If you can actually make a strong case
that you're equally valuable or more
valuable somewhere else, a plausible
case, don't even bring up the manager.
just say, "Hey, I was looking at this
other role and I think I could do so
much more for you in the or over here
because of A, B, and C." And you try
that run first. And if that works,
you're done. You never have to bring it
up. The second thing you can say, you've
just you've got to you've got to play
chess, not checkers, meaning several
moves in advance. You can totally say,
look, candidly,
you keep it blame free.
I'm not compatible
with
our leader. I'm not Maybe it's him,
maybe it's me. Of course, I naturally
feel that maybe I'm doing good work and
and he could improve, but I'm not here
to throw your manager under the bus. I'm
just here to tell you I need a change.
And I did this once with a leader at
Amazon where I wanted to make a change.
I was doing a good job for him in the
role I was in. So, he wanted me to stay
there. And what I had to help him
understand is I said,
"You are seeing this as I take this new
role or I stay in this role and you'd
prefer I stay in this role because
that's good for you." And I get that.
But what I'm trying to tell you is
either I take this new role in your org
that I'm asking for or I'm going
somewhere else entirely. So there is no
choice. Keep me where I'm at. there's do
you want me on your team or on someone
else's team. Now I had both options
available. And it was really interesting
because after weeks and weeks of
resistance, I was in the new role the
next morning. Like once he got the
clarity of, oh, I thought I had a choice
between you stay in the role I want you
in and you go to the role I don't really
want you in, but the choice I actually
have is I keep you in my team or I lose
you.
It was totally different the next
morning.
&gt;&gt; But how how did you word that in a way
where that person you were reporting to
did not feel upset that you kind of
subverted their power and
&gt;&gt; forced their hand?
&gt;&gt; Um that's a good question and so I can
exemplify that. I framed it in terms of
what they would do. Uh this person was a
vice president at that point. I was a
vice president reporting to them. So, I
was like a smaller vice president,
whatever, lower in level,
and I had gotten a job offer from a
senior vice president in a different
organization.
That was my other job. So, I went to him
and I said, "I have an offer
from this SVP.
Now, you know that if I give my word to
that guy, I have to go." Like, that's
what you would do. If I give my word,
it's over.
You know, I really want this other role.
I have to give this guy an answer.
You've told me no on this other role
several times. What do you want me to
do?
Bam. The door. Like, because once he
understood, he understood
he would never break his word to an SVP.
So, he understood that the moment I gave
my word, it was done. And so,
that's the same like what would you do?
If you can tap into the manager feeling
like, "Okay, I don't like it, but I get
it." That's what I was doing is he was
like, "Oh, I don't like this, but okay,
I get it."
&gt;&gt; There were three roles that under
consideration.
&gt;&gt; Well, there was the one I was in, and
the one I really wanted, and the
alternative I had gotten on the table.
&gt;&gt; So, you brought in a a new option that
was better than your current, and you
said, "My alternative now is I may leave
you unless you give me what I want." But
you didn't say that directly, right?
&gt;&gt; I didn't say that what I want. Instead,
I said I actually I'm very careful not
to make it that threatening. I said, you
know, once I give my word, I'm I can't
go back on that. Like
that's
that the the wording is I as soon as you
say it, I think I mean if I was that
manager, I there's I'm on your side even
though I see the what what was the what
was the word there? The polite fiction,
I guess. I see the play fiction
immediately, but I laugh because it's
just so and I think this is a skill I
haven't figured out how to teach people,
but maybe this talk can help.
Several times I've given you these
polite fictions, these careful wordings.
I think a mistake people make that they
can do so much better is think through
your wording before you're in the room.
Because most of these conversations are
not spurof the- moment. You either
they're either on the calendar, this is
my performance review or whatever, or
you at least know they're going to come
up. And so spend the time to have that
key phrase ready so that you can just
with true sincerity
say, "Yeah, you know, once I give my
word, I can't go back on that."
And I deliver that I look like I I did
mean it. In no way was I lying, but at
the same time I deliver it like I'm an
angel just fallen from heaven, you know,
poor innocent victim.
&gt;&gt; Both are true. And when I put the screws
to that other boss long ago and said,
"Well, I'm gonna have to consider if my
career is not as important to Amazon as
it is to me. I'm gonna have to think
about that." Again, I said that with a
warm smile, like, "Hey,
of course I'm gonna have to think about
that." And I just look like the kitten,
you know, the anime kitten with the
giant eyes. Well, body language matters
because if I say that to you, see, I can
say that differently. I can say, "Well,
Ryan, you know, if my career is not as
important to Amazon as is to me, I'm
going to have to think about that." Then
you're like, "Well, screw you,
&gt;&gt; right?" Whereas if I say, "Well, of
course I'm going to have to think about
what that means for me."
Totally different delivery. Same lines,
same words. Now, there's some people
watching this, engineers, who are like,
"I hate you. I hate the politics. I hear
you, but this is human nature and human
interaction. You're dealing with other
humans and their emotions are at play
and their defensiveness and their own
stress.
Do yourself a favor and get good at
this.
