原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8A0DsIt8fJw

There was something that we were talking
about right before this that I thought
was really interesting
around this
new kind of adoption that we're seeing
both
from enterprises using cloud code and a
lot of these code gen tools for the
first time in a real way and then also
in the consumer side people making all
new kinds of mediums that they haven't
explored before and it's really the sort
of blurring between what a creator is
versus what a user is. Do you feel like
they are in some ways kind of the new
kinds of consumers of a lot of these
tools?
Um I think the lines between especially
with AI because it's so indeterministic
but it allows a greater degree of
freedom when it comes to what's
possible. Uh the lines between uh
consumer and a creator is definitely
blur blurry. I think the way I see it
and where the dissonance happens is AI
with AI we keep saying creators but
actually um
and if you think of a live concert when
you go there an audience kind of has a
fair idea of what they're going to
expect but usually the reactions could
be surprised tears or anger whatever it
may need to be. So the models are sort
of surprising us every day like that.
You have a fair idea of what it can give
you but I think the ultimately the
person using the model is more of a
consumer of the models capabilities.
There's no rigid way to communicate what
they can and cannot do. People are
learning every day of like how can I
pull the best abilities from this model
but I think like we're going to enter in
this very unique territory where you
don't really know where the source of
art is. It's just like out in the wilds
and you don't even know where it came
from and then it mutates into so many
different forms that it doesn't matter
what the source is. It just matters how
it gets consumed.
I'm curious something you have so much
experience with live performance. Like
do you feel like using models is a kind
of live performance every time? I mean
yeah it's such an interesting idea what
you're talking through and I think I
feel like I'm trying to place how I feel
about that take. I think I feel
complicated about it. I I've spent a
long time like building literal live
concert shows by hand like I call it the
old-fashioned way now only because I
feel like I live so much at the front
line of these like models. Um but I did
the original like it like origin of my
work was all hand animating 3D modeling
like rigging and lighting um and it
would take thousands of hours. Like we
would say animation is the most
time-consuming medium you pay pay in
blood sweat and tears and it's really
true. Um now probably for the last like
4 and 1/2 years I've been like really
immersed in video models and with this
thing I'm showing today Sleepwalker it's
a real-time auto-regressive model and
there's this really weird balance that
I'm sure you all relate to where you're
sort of like relinquishing some degree
of control with [clears throat]
creativity in this sort of new era of
tools and at first I think that can be
like really terrifying in some ways or
it can almost feel like you are more
consuming or watching this thing happen
rather than participating actively
within it but I've started to sort of
like have my philosophy shift into one
that's more of like almost a sculptor
when I use these tools where it is like
more of a dialogue between myself and
the computer myself and the model myself
and others like especially for
Sleepwalker which is like literal
multiplayer
um where we are almost like having this
really interesting push and pull or
asking the model to go to these places
to some degree I cannot control where it
actually goes. It go follow I know you
witnessed that yourself when you demoed
it um but there's something like really
liberating in that when you start to
embrace it. It feels very new vector
very new medium. Um there's this like
pursuit of this thing that I think about
all the time. We call it like the new
image with a capital N and a capital I.
It's like this idea that these models
are going to allow me to produce things
that I think no one's ever seen before
that are net new to humanity and like
this is one of the first times in like
the entirety of existence that that
starts to really become possible.
And so I feel less like a consumer and
more like a creator when I use these
models because of that only because I'm
in pursuit of that new image and I have
almost no interest in replicating what
has already come but um I recognize for
sure that it it is almost such a new set
of motions overall to use these tools
that it really requires like a radical
shift in in mental models to to start to
embrace and even then I still feel like
iffy sometimes.
There there's even a thread here
tying into some of your work
Brina that is interesting around
how a team might use this new kind of
engine
of creativity of productivity of work in
a real way
that allows them to some ways be
maximally creative while also
deepening their sense of individual
taste and a lot of that comes down to
the interface right that we use whether
it's an in-person meeting which is like
the OG interface
um a phone call a Figma mock a popcorn
prototype and I'm curious
what principles you lean on as you think
about designing that meta layer of how
different creative people can
collaborate with this ultra creative new
engine that we all have access to? Yeah
I mean we think about it kind of a blank
slate but like we're really concentrated
on the multiplayer level. So that's what
makes me so excited about what you guys
are building because I mean I fully
believe great minds together make great
products right? And so you know as we
kind of go into single player mode
everyone's going to be building their
own thing and their own creativity but
to put a live concert on you need
hundreds of people to do that and then
it's just like the best thing you've
ever felt right? And so like that's how
I feel when we're building out Popcorn
and that's why we care about it so much
because we know that if we can harness
kind of what you guys are building and
then put it in a more collaborative
space and then for all these minds to
come from all different directions and
then put it together we can build really
great products together. Um but right
now the tools that we have it's all kind
of hodgepodging hodgepodging Popcorn
collaborative space where you know
throwing into a messaging text thread
which doesn't quite get around the
visual part that Figma used to give us
right? Um and then we have prototypes
that are moving states and forms and
like how do you verbalize around that?
Like and then especially if you're 10
clicks in you're just like oh I clicked
on this clicked on this clicked on that
and then like can you change that piece?
Like it's just so hard to describe
um and that's what I see people
struggling with and so that's why
Popcorn is so exciting for me to work on
um where people can just take their
single player mode of what they're
building in their minds push it out and
then everyone in their team can ingest
that. Um yeah.
I think latent space is best explored
together and especially in the process
of trying to actually physically realize
things whether you're building a
prototype or you're trying to like
literally go to a new dimension in a
real-time model or you're like building
you know some sort of piece of graphic
design work the best results that I've
seen so far are the ones that are
ultimately collaborative and that's
probably because it's literally such a
net new vector to be within. Um it takes
like the same way that we use multiple
agents or like multiple inputs to
produce an output it takes multiple
people I think to really like land
somewhere compelling. I'm sure you see
it all the time Yeah. with like these
kinds of tools. I think the other thing
I would add is just like we have to work
with multiple humans with different
skills even with an AI there's a wide
range of possibilities on what different
models can bring to the table. Each has
different personality they might have
different capabilities and I think
what's
uh missing in the market today is
everybody wants to one-shot everything
and it's possible maybe with code where
everything compiles the same way and
there's a verifiable paths towards that.
With creative there's three things to
satisfy. The creator has a certain
expression of taste and they are trying
to have the consumer consume it a
certain way and then the platform where
it lives is going to influence how that
gets consumed and for all these
variables to be right
the machine has to understand everything
that you want to create and I think
that's a very big gap and where I'm
excited about new interaction patterns
where we should move beyond simple text
prompting. Like it's not useful for
somebody to write three paragraphs to
maybe change the curvature of a font or
you know change the background and these
are very simple tasks which is why I
think that is one part where a creator
doesn't want to be surprised. They want
to get the things done. There is a space
where you would like to be surprised
amused and be happy that the model is
helping you explore realms that you
didn't think was possible. So I think
those are like two clear areas of
research that you have to separate and
like actually hill climb on where you
have to bring certain determinism in the
process and the way to do that is to
teach the model expose it to the right
data the same ways that a human should
use to verbalize. So there's some way
where you get work done in design versus
there's a different space where you're
very
you want to be in a space where it's
like blue sky thinking. You want to see
the art of possible and then the models
can help you do that and I don't believe
it's like one single model. It should be
various models agent harnesses and then
on top of that interesting
UI experiences that needs to keep
evolving as the models kind of like
create new forms. You should also have
new tools to like steer and steer the
editing capabilities of it. It it's just
it's interesting cuz one of the things
that is running through my mind is even
in the the room that we're in now
um used to be one of our companies that
started at SBC this company called
Goodfire. Used to be their first office
right? And Goodfire builds tools to
allow people building these models to
interpret their models and understand
what's going on and steer them in
different ways. And I think an analogy
that I've been playing with mentally um
that I've actually found quite helpful
is to almost imagine latent space as a
real kind of terrain. Right, so there
are there are some parts of latent space
where you want to strap on your scuba
mask and go underwater. There's areas
that feel like clouds. There's areas
that feel like mountains. And the
interfaces, the tools, the harnesses,
even the other people who might want to
chime in or bring in alongside our
journey are different for each of these
zones, right? So, you know, as I'm
building a bunch of agents for SBC, I'm
like, when I am building you know, our
agents to help us find new members and
scour our members networks and find
interesting talented people who might be
exploring what's next, maybe the kind of
harness I want that person or that agent
to have is one that has on the hat of a
recruiter or like a talent spotter. And
then in other dimensions, you know, I
when I want to scold members for leaving
their mugs in the sink, I actually want
like my mom's hat. You know, like I
don't want this person to be like, "Oh,
this could be an interesting engineer."
I'm like, "No, it. Like I want
somebody who's going to be like get get
your in the dishwasher, you
know? Like And it's like a it's a silly
example, but I I think that a lot of
creative work often straddles these
boundary lines, right? Of like these
amphibian territories, where it's not
actually obvious a priori what model you
want to use,
what kinds of harnesses you might want
to use. And in some ways,
one of the things that I want to touch
on a little bit is how we can think
about giving more of this intuitive feel
to our models. And primarily the way to
do that seems to be interesting and
novel kinds of data. Um and I think some
of the data work that you're exploring I
find pretty fascinating around making
more legible this sort of overlapping
zone of what humans how humans operate
and how models might intuit the world
and understand the world. And I think
it'd be interesting to hear a little bit
more about that. Yeah, so if you look at
uh diffusion models, they were trained
on billions of image caption pairs. But
good design, let's say you look at an ad
and it they are a result of thousands of
tiny design decisions. Those design
traces probably live on Photoshop or
Figma or any other tool that they're
using. And when the model just has a
surface level understanding of it, when
it one-shot something, it's a cool demo
to see on Twitter. But a world-class
designer will not accept if it is even
one pixel space away from the margin
that they want. And if you are aiming
for precision and you want AI to be a
trusted capable design partner, it has
to also build an internal model of what
does it mean to compose this layout,
what does Z orders mean, what are
uh what are the properties that you can
mutate when it comes to text or image.
And the way to do that is really teach
the model with tons and tons of data of
like good design practices, design
traces. So, we built the largest data
set to uh demonstrate to the model like
what are layout compositions, like what
do each component's properties look
like, what should you even change here.
And because of that, you can build a
model that is able to not just
deconstruct any image it generates into
layers, but you can also delegate each
layer and let it evolve differently with
different models or different humans,
which is exactly how design works.
Because design is not one-shotted. It's
very iterative. You walk few steps
forward, few steps backward, and then
maybe one step sideways. And this
approach will allow for it as opposed to
current image models are like an
engineer's or optimizer's dream where,
"Oh, let me just get this done with one
single prompt." But that is not how
design actually works. And leaning into
the indeterminacy
is interesting. Well, yeah, so it's I'm
funny it's funny cuz I'm sitting here
and I'm thinking about it and it's like
I really am living a double life right
now. So, like with Sleepwalker, it's
almost like the full it is the full
release of control, right? You like are
only interfacing with prompts. You send
that prompt out. It's auto-regressive,
which means the model is effectively
like learning physics from first
principles in every single session. It
works the same way like a large language
model would, where it's trying to like
look at everything every token that came
before it and then predict which one
comes next. And so, you get all these
really interesting moments where you
totally give up control. You basically
tell it where you want it to go and then
it tries to solve the physics and the
time to naturally get you there. And you
probably seen it. It doesn't naturally
get you there. In fact, it's very
surreal and fantastical and bizarre.
Um but the other half of my life or like
the biggest part of my life right now,
um I'm spending almost all of my time
with like production teams. I'm working
as a forward deployed creative at Luma
Labs. And we just put out this um
agentic this brand new set of creative
agents um in this like big expansive
canvas. And the entire game there is
like the degree of control. And it's all
about like as much context as possible.
And you're working with huge sets of
images and huge sets of text. And an
agent that has an enormous amount of
context. And really design in that
moment or production or creativity
becomes a conversation, an ongoing
conversation, not just between yourself
and an agent, but it's also multiplayer.
So, as many people as you can in this
canvas are all working together. It's
very interesting to kind of flip between
the two. And as I think about it, I feel
like Sleepwalker is almost like my like
it's like my fun sort of release on the
other side of that, where it you're
right. Like the reality is that for the
actual like enterprise applications and
for like career creatives, what you
really need is a conversation. You need
a clear vision of creativity and you
need a ton of context. A text prompt is
never enough. You know? Yeah. It's so
funny cuz when you guys are talking
about creativity, and I come from the
social world and talking about like, you
know, squared
Instagram squared photos, then you make
it a long photo and then you make it a
video and then, you know, and so funny
cuz so I think about creativity like
expression, right? And so, I'm kind of
curious how the world is going to like
figure out, you know, as you think about
these tools and where these models are
going. And like reality is is as a
creative, you just want to be able to
express yourself in a certain way. And
it's funny as you talk about all the the
the little knobs that you have to talk
about, those are the knobs that I care
about to be able to
express myself in that one way. And
that's why I'm going to change that one
pixel that way. Yeah. Um so, yeah.
&gt;&gt; Can you say a more about
the new kinds of habits that both of you
are seeing maybe within the Popcorn
interface, but then also
at I mean, your role at Luma is so
fascinating, where you're working with
people who maybe have never really used
AI in that sense before. So, you're also
kind of the tip of this We're both the
tip of the spears in different domains.
Uh can you say a little bit more about
the new habits you're observing people
like take on? Yeah, I mean, the way that
I think about things is just through
expression, right? And so, through PM,
the tool is a doc and text, right? And
for, you know, a designer, it's Figma.
And so, but now we know that everyone's
trying to express themselves through
apps.
Um and so now we need a place to be able
to kind of be able to push up that app
and then be able to have a conversation
around it. Um so, it's as simple as that
how I think about um
just what we're we're working on at
Popcorn how we see it moving.
Yeah, it's really fascinating. Um this
forward deployed role has been just one
where I feel like I get to really work
with people who I think would be the
most transformed by these tools, but
sometimes are the most hesitant to do
so. I'm in these rooms with VFX and
post-production artists who have been
doing this for 30 years, right? They've
come up as computers have evolved.
They've done everything by hand. And
when I sit with them and I first show
them There was this great quote this guy
said to me the other day. He was like,
"When I talk to your agent, I feel like
I'm dancing with the devil." And I
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; was like, "Oh, yeah. I have No one's
like No one's said that to me before."
And I was like, "Okay, well, let's like
start to think about it a little bit."
And that's where like the experience of
10 years in production has been really
helpful cuz I like I know the blood,
sweat, and tears that it takes to
actually like make something real. And I
can kind of like hold their hands
metaphorically and be like, "Okay, well,
here's the places where I know this has
been really difficult or where I know
this is really time-consuming." And we
really like focus on these sort of
hybrid workflows, where we're almost
like bringing the agent along with you
to start to pick up the pieces that are
more frustrating or more time-consuming.
It's all about freeing up like cognitive
capacity for the things that matter,
right? Which is like the creativity,
it's the expression, it's the
exploration. And where previously a lot
of like caloric thinking time was spent
on setting files up, lighting,
rendering, rigging, now it's iteration,
right? It's in fact like the magic of
this tool is the ability to see so many
potentials simultaneously. And then the
ability to explore those like very
quickly.
Um and to like in a lot of ways, that's
where we start to really see people
shift. And they go from like,
you know, that guy who said it was
dancing with the devil, he sort of is
like, you know, after a week, he comes
back and he's like, "It's all about the
hybrid workflow. Like I love this agent.
This agent is my new intern. This agent
is my new friend." And I'm like, "That's
incredible that we got you there." You
know, and it's so exciting. And and they
almost in some ways like can't put the
tools down after that. I guess uh we've
had this funny experience with
enterprises that have large production
spend. And uh what's interesting is over
time, they kind of like uh don't
verbalize a lot of tasks. They'll just
be like, "Fix this. Like what is this?
Like we don't know." And that even as a
human, I'm not able to parse it well.
But what's interesting is I've seen two
types of creatives, like senior
creatives. One, they're very excited by
the technology. They want to see how to
use it to explore everything. The second
one is they want the machine to always
obey. Like they don't want it to have a
personality. They don't want it to bring
any indeterminism to the process. And
they are like, "Why can't it change the
aspect ratio? That's all I want it to
do. Like it should just do everything I
ask it and I feel like that's where it
would be interesting to see what new
interface layers we can build.
Not necessarily humanize these models,
but a way where people can get
comfortable with the idea that you
actually have a thought partner
that is like your design teammate
because that's how you pitch it, but if
it's like stuck in a small tiny box and
you're like typing prompts or clicking
buttons, I think their default state is
I just want it to do whatever I ask it.
I'm I'm I'm not I don't want to like
spend time like trying to have it give
me answers that I wasn't looking for.
That's such an interesting take.
I I definitely see similar things with
some of the people that we're working
with.
In some ways we also like have some of
these senior artists like start to
really get they're reading every word
back from the agent so closely and they
start to get really enamored in the
relationship that they're having with
the agent itself. But if you know, if
there's any moment of syncophancy where
there's a deviation from like what the
agent has promised to do and what it's
able to actually create, I think in a
lot of ways that spell is like really
broken for a lot of creatives. And so at
Limo like we've built a bunch of other
additional sort of agentic tools. It's
almost like you have an army inside our
canvas.
It's not just about the agent itself,
but we actually have like a judgment
layer that comes in and evaluates the
outputs and then like gives the agent
feedback on its own work and continues
to iterate on it. And that plus like
some framing of more of like this is a
collaborator not a servant. This is
somebody somebody This is something I
have to be so careful because it's like
come so personified for me too.
They're my friends, you know.
I really believe that. But it's really
this like fine line you start to walk of
like really like out of creative
behavior too. Like where do you want
people creatively to land with this? Do
you want them to see it as like this
executor this like machine that just
gives you your exact aspect ratio or
like are you more open and curious to
these potential new pathways? Like to me
the second one really represents where
creativity should go, what the evolution
of creativity and like human computer
collaboration could and should be.
You know. And even that framing right of
HCI to HCC in a way right of it is no
longer just this
tool that humans are using to express
something they might have imagined a
priori. It very much does feel like this
dance, right? And
one of the things that you know, I've
been thinking a lot about as well. I
mean, one of the first teams
I was working with these two founders
Shawn and Max and Rob or three founders
Shawn, Max, and Rob.
A lot of the stuff that they were
exploring with WebSim was this really
fascinating canvas of what is like a
different kind of browsing experience
maybe look like and
something that I noticed that was really
interesting that that I feel a lot now
when I use a lot of computer use models
in particular is this sort of shattering
of the illusion where when I see a model
flail at navigating somebody's LinkedIn
that I can navigate with my eyes closed,
it's exactly that that that sort of
illusion breaks where I'm like, oh, it's
not really a person behind the screen.
It's a robot that doesn't seem to know
the world that well. And obviously this
is a temporary feeling cuz
in another week these models are going
to be so much better. So they're much
better than I am at using some of these
things, but
the thrust of this being
in some ways you know, like something
that you talked about a lot was
this reliance on
the conversation
whether written, dictated, or spoken in
some ways and overheard
as the core medium of collaboration. And
in in some ways like
that carries with it a bunch of these
externalities.
The main API for us and other people
tend to be conversation too. So makes
total sense that you get the same
positive externality or negative
externality of a relation forming. But I
don't really build a relation you know,
my life prior to investing was largely
poetry. Like I don't I don't really
build that much of a relation with my
pen and paper. Though I am conversing,
but I'm conversing through them rather
than with them. And I think I wonder
whether this is a temporary period of
HCC that is so lingual that I wonder in
five years from now will we actually
enter a period where it's much less
conversational actually much more
non-verbal. You know, in a way like it's
just watching us interact. You can
imagine a popcorn interface where that
sidebar is not a conversation, but it's
actually just like a bunch of cameras
pointing at us as we're just chatting
and it's kind of intuitively intuiting
what we're doing and there's no back and
forth. Maybe it's just a one-way
transfer of knowledge and its
conversation its medium of conversing is
just the thing itself. It's just the
prototype that's continually shaping. So
in some weird way it's like we're
chatting here and then you know, this
agent that I'm building is just forming
in front of me like some homunculus. And
that's like not a crazy take in my
opinion.
But in that world like I I don't know
whether I would have such a personal
relation with the thing. Like I think
it'd feel much more like this thing this
being that was being instantiated rather
than me conversing with this new friend
who is then making this thing and we
build an independent relation. And I
think this is why my mind in some ways
is so drawn to this idea of diffing the
conversation with humans and then
sending that to the model because it
feels like this really interesting
three-body problem of like you, your
collaborators, and this alien
collaborator which is permeating
everything. This whole reason why you're
on the surface. Otherwise you'd just
stay on Figma. Like if we didn't use
these models like Figma's great or
whatever Google Docs is great. And so
something that I've been thinking about
a lot is like what is the future kind of
relation that we'll have with these
models as they become maybe less verbal.
I think what I mean, that's what we're
teasing at Popcorn, right? I mean, we
have a modality on Popcorn that you
point and talk now.
Um and we're going to push that even
further as [clears throat] we figure out
kind of just like what conversation is
going to turn into. If it's text,
pointing, and and collapsing maybe two
modalities together. Maybe it's your
eyes looking.
Maybe it's just your mouth moving. Maybe
it's a conversation between two people
that Popcorn captures to actually build
the prototype that you guys are thinking
about. Um and so I don't know what's
going to push, but I think in terms of
how we think about Again, it comes back
to expression for me.
It's how your team expresses with each
other and then that combined expression
is going to make a better product. Um
and we need to build tools for that.
Can I give one hot take on this real
quick?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, go for it.
&gt;&gt; Okay. When you write a poem with your
pen and paper, your pen and paper is not
your friend, right? It becomes an
extension of yourself. That's how I
always felt about computer pre-AI era.
And I think that's exactly the direction
that we're going, right? I think it's
going to shift from conversation to
extension of self.
I have one Oh.
hot take where I disagree with all of
this which is
I think
just like with humans some people you
have transactional relationships. Some
people are your friends. Some people
[clears throat] you absolutely hate, you
never want to see them again. I think
with AI like they would also be a
different type of beings. Maybe with
some AI you don't want to interface with
them and they just watch you get things
done and you want to be you never want
to see them again. Whereas with some AI
you might want to nurture your
relationships and they are an extension
of your mind or like active
collaborators. So I actually don't think
it will be this or that.
We will harvest AI people, I guess.
&gt;&gt; Well, I mean, I feel that personally.
Like I was
writing a poem two weeks ago and one of
my favorite teachers is poet Louise
Glück. And you know, I was writing this
poem and I was like I basically sent it
to Claude. I was like, hey, like pretend
you're Louise Glück and give me
feedback. And it was so interesting. I
had that thread going and then a bunch
of other random SBC threads of like, can
you do all this random work for me? And
I felt an emotional relation when I
closed that thread and my poem was done.
I was like, ah, damn. Like, you know,
and she has since passed away. So it did
feel like this weird reanimation of this
and the feedback was actually great. It
was exactly what I think you could
imagine her saying in the same kind of
stern voice. And so I there is going to
be a heterogeneity, right? It's like
even within the same interface different
threads can totally have different kinds
of characters. Well, I appreciate all of
you guys joining us today from different
corners of the SBC universe. I think
that the broader threads around
creativity, human computer
collaboration, and what it might mean to
be a creative are all ones that
folks are really interested in
exploring. And so I appreciate that you
guys came here to sort of share your
thoughts with us today.
