原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=faqaOVQ5Axk

I want to be able to spin up a hardware
company the same way that my friends
spin up B2B SAS. Like you should be able
to say I want to do something that's
considered very hard and just go and do
it. We basically built a compiler that
gives the model enough hints that it
feels like it's writing a Python program
instead of designing a circuit boards.
&gt;&gt; It's basically this combination of a
very modelled approach that allows you
to use these agents to write code which
is what they know how to do put on
rails.
&gt;&gt; Mhm. Everything is code.
&gt;&gt; The last frontier standing is we don't
have enough data. The data is like the
thing that we need to generate as a
society if we want circuit boards to be
automated by AI.
&gt;&gt; Making sure that you design the system
to actually be fully autonomous and to
not be human in the loop. I think it it
for us at least it feels like it's
driven a very different architecture.
&gt;&gt; We're thrilled to be here today with
David Asagi and Alex Moden. Um, David is
the CEO of Diode Computers and they're
using AI to design and manufacture
custom circuit boards uh faster and
better than before um and faster than
ever possible in the United States. Um,
Alex is the CEO of Unlimited Industries,
an AI native firm that vertically
integrates design, engineering, uh,
procurement and construction for big
infrastructure projects. Um, so we're
here today to talk about physical world
AI. And when I say that, I think a lot
of people probably think about things
like humanoids and robotics foundation
models. But um while I think robotic
housekeepers folding your laundry is
still a few years away, um or maybe if
you're really optimistic um a few
months, uh AI is already starting to
cross this chasm with use cases uh that
move atoms. Um so these companies are
working on uh physical world AI at two
very different scales from the micro to
the macro. Um and I'm excited to get
your perspectives about where we are and
what's ahead. Um so Alex David, welcome
to the show.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, excited to be here.
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Maybe Alex to kick off. Um you've said
that in 10 years all construction will
be fully automated, which feels like a
pretty bold claim. Um very ambitious,
but what does that actually mean? What
does it take to get there?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I think it's probably helpful to
level set on like what a construction
project looks like. And it starts with a
developer who's got a empty lot of land
and they want to make some sort of big
project there. And then there's
depending on how big the project is. If
you're going to build a power plant or a
hospital or some large facility, you're
going to spend almost a year, sometimes
a year and a half just doing design for
that. And there's hundreds of engineers
that touch this. There's lots of
different project managers that touch
this. And it's this orchestration of
mechanical and process engineers and
electrical engineers and uh civil and
structural folks all kind of working
together to do the pre-construction
package which is effectively like a
giant set of instructions that you can
then hand to a general contractor or
some builder who will order the things
on there and actually construct the
facility.
&gt;&gt; Um that first part that's like line of
sight today of how we automate end to
end. You know typically we call that
final output an IFC package and issued
for construction package. um where you
will literally feed in a site a bunch of
different requirements about what you're
trying to build and anything you want to
stipulate about how it gets built and AI
is going to explore tens of thousands of
different permutations about how
optimally done design that facility
&gt;&gt; at a button click and then what you get
back from that is a globally optimized
IFC package issued for construction
&gt;&gt; optimized for what
&gt;&gt; um it depends what the the optimization
function is and so the easiest way to
think about that might be like capex
like how much does this thing cost. But
a much much better uh way to think about
that is like a total cost of ownership
of the project. So if you really care
about um operation and maintenance of
the facility, how constructible is the
facility itself? And I think a lot of
things we kind of generally see in
industry today is it's it's a there's so
many different segments and slices of
people that all optimize for very
different things. So being able to kind
of approach designing these giant things
the same way you do from a software
perspective which is a very like
parametric um ultimately a super super
flexible approach you can take to to
optimize on on any sort of main metric
for that. Um so I guess that's like you
know I guess first half of it is how do
you automate that end to end which is is
what we're working on now and have a
product to do. The second part does look
like a bunch of robotics and that's
everything from like autonomous earth
movers which feels more tractable in the
short term to how is a site full of tons
of humanoids and drones and all sorts of
like autonomous robotics.
&gt;&gt; Um so yeah we very much think that that
future is like um you know destined to
happen over the next like a decade and
um a big piece of that is like if the
incentives are properly aligned which
I'm happy to talk more about later.
&gt;&gt; Yeah I'm excited to talk about that. Um,
David, what uh what is the kind of
equivalent timeline for for automation
and hardware and in particular maybe
electronics because that's where you
focus on um design both design and
manufacturing. So maybe paint us a
picture on what this looks like for you.
&gt;&gt; So I have to be careful um because my
timelines are getting shorter and
shorter uh and I think I I need to stay
on the reasonable side. I will say it's
really interesting to hear Alex describe
AI applied to construction because I can
draw very like immediate parallels to
hardware and for the like for this
discussion I would like to stick to
circuit boards specifically which is
both the design and the assembly of a
circuit card. Um I am reasonably
confident like we we do a lot of work
with entropic for example and the jump
that we see in design capabilities
between each model like tier like
publicly available model is wild. We
thought it would be five years. I think
that like I can probably say two. Um
there I think that the caveat here is
that there are very very different types
of electronics design and like making a
blanket statement about all of them I
think is like um not appropriate but I
do think that there are there is a
subsect that I really care about and I'm
going to like go into details as to why
that I think will be fully automated in
two years like in terms of design. Um
and the other like reason why it's
interesting it's like for us it's not
just design it's also manufacturing and
um Alex said okay like we have like this
very like high optimization function on
the like effectively like what the plan
looks like uh and then there will be a
bunch of robotics on the manufacturing
like we already have the robotics like
the electronic industry has had robots
for like years the biggest problem is
that there is a 8020 like robotic
automation versus like manual labor and
so right now like nobody has really
brided that gap in the United States. So
what I am uh like what we're working on
at diode
&gt;&gt; what do you mean by that? Can you c can
you double click on that 8020?
&gt;&gt; So normally like there's a process
called surface mount technology. So this
means that there is a robot that will
basically place every single component
on top of a circuit board and then you
bake it in an oven and you're done. But
the 20% that is like very very hard to
automate is there are some components
that will not fill that like fit that
very nice mold. Maybe it's like a very
big transformer that needs to be
soldered with a different process. Maybe
it's something that hugs the PCB. Even
the assembly of the like a circuit board
itself into an enclosure that's usually
not fully automated as well. So there's
been companies like Foxcon for example
for Apple or like Pagatron that have
like solved that problem with labor and
that makes complete sense for like
certain like segments and in certain
geographies but you're not going to like
double uh the like production capacity
for data centers in the US by just like
relying on labor alone. Um, and also
you're not going to be able to reduce
the uh time cycle that it takes to like
bring up a data center from like four
years to two years if you're not able to
like redesign the boards, redesign them
for manufacturing, manufacture them at
scale in a constricted timeline. So what
we really are bullish on is not really
like AI completely automating away like
design work. It's more AI being able to
automate away the type of design that
produces these very manufacturable
outputs. And then we have a lot of like
you know moonshot ideas about how you
can improve the robotics on the line.
But the the core goal is if the design
is con like constrained you can
manufacture it at 100% automation today.
Like I don't even need to wait for
robotics to get better like the robots
are already here. It is funny to think
about like the the design of a of a data
center with all the complex sort of
optimizations you need to do and the
specs and everything you need to fit
into a particular site footprint
actually being kind of similar
surprisingly similar probably to the
design of a very small circuit board
that needs to fit lots of different
components and meet lots of different
specs. I don't think I actually fully
appreciated that till right now. Um, and
David, you've said your goal is to
transform every software engineer into
an electrical engineer. Like why and
how? I I want to like re-qualify that
like
&gt;&gt; okay
&gt;&gt; like I think that software has
incredibly good properties and I think
that empirically we are immediately
observing this with like uh tools like
cloud code like basically agents have
been able to leverage like the
structured nature of code to do things
that are not codelike at all like you
can basically use cloud code to do
things that are completely orthogonal so
the initial comment that I made was
basically yes like we need to take the
current like set of software engineers
that we have already in the United
States and allow them to do more like
being able to be also electrical
engineer but now like the total set of
software engineers or people that are
able to produce software is exploding
and it includes like agents. So really
what you want to do is you want to give
anything that has the ability to
generate code the same ability to
generate hardware. That's really what
you want to do. And this will include
like greatly skilled S sws that are
building beautiful cathedrals on a PCB
um like a lot of our employees which I'm
very fond of. Uh but it will also
include like a lot of like smaller
designs that are completely automated
away by like allowing an agent to use
code to build the board itself. Um the
complexity of those designs today is
limited but you can extrapolate the
derivative and like get to where we want
to be in like a year or two. I think
this gets to another parallel in both of
the industries that you're working in,
which is that you're working in these um
industries with like a very entrenched
sort of sets of expertise, ways of
working, tools that people are used to
using. Um, and I'm curious to hear I
mean which is very different than like
software engineering for example where
even before AI I think software
engineers are just naturally technology
curious and used to adopting completely
new frameworks for doing their work like
every couple of years. So can you talk a
little bit about that? Like how do you
how do you essentially change
an an entire industry's way of working?
Um how much do you have to vertically
integrate and own yourself? um versus
how can you bring people along for the
journey.
&gt;&gt; I mean on our side there is um
there is a lot of like you have to earn
it and um and and super traditional
industry. This is a lot again with the
incentives but it's um you know
&gt;&gt; I mean I it's hard to think of a more
traditional industry than construction.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It feels Yeah.
Even manufacturing feels like incredibly
like pro technology and and like light
years ahead of where the construction
industry really feels. Um, and a lot of
that is again it's it's the incentive
structure is like helpful to understand
because really the the source of capital
sets the incentives all the way down
through the project and like um we
certainly didn't used to always do it
this way but how it happens now is a
basically a project that you want to go
build goes through this pretty like
stagegated process of removing risk so
that you can fund it and then eventually
you get this kind of project that feels
fundable to an investor and this is a
very different profile than venture
right this is people who like all they
want is yeah it's a stable IR They want
a set rate of return.
&gt;&gt; Yes. I like I have no uh ability to take
that going to zero and I don't even care
about capturing the upside. So all those
kind of incentives force the adoption of
new technology down like when you get to
someone who might have some new piece of
technology. It's just super
unincentivized because there's no
upside. Like no one actually wins from
that environment. It looks actually
really similar to defense you know in a
pre-andral day if you will. Like it is a
someone's got budget. I'm going to pay
you
&gt;&gt; like four companies to the government.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, yeah, and
that's that's the process of saying,
"Hey, this is like it's it's just it's
just wrong. It's just like broken." And
um and that change just hasn't been able
to kind of permeate through to this
industry. And then and we're kind of
left with like you'd walk into one of
these firms and you'd look at people's
computers and you'd feel like you're
stuck in like the late 90s. You're like,
"What is going on here?" Um so for us
you know vertical integration is like
you know we have to own enough of it
that we can actually do a clean
interface to the industry rather than um
you know trying to pick off one small
part and then force people to to kind of
change and adopt that technology. Um so
yeah it is it is a process of us uh kind
of owning a big enough portion where we
can reasonably do it as a startup and um
and then earn the right to continue to
to chunk more and more of that from a
vertical integration perspective. So, do
you have to go out and hire and look for
the like forwardleaning?
I mean, for for example, like you you
need a a registered civil engineer, I
presume, to sign off on a drawing before
it goes to construction. Like h how do
you think about constructing the team,
no pun intended, of people who are like
actually, you know, willing to think
differently given the right incentive
structure? Yeah, I mean um most of our
team is actually not software engineers
like we're mostly multi-disiplinary
mechanical, electrical, civil um lots of
simulation controls. Um we definitely
have people who have like AI and
software background but it in our
experience has been much easier to teach
a multi-disiplinary person the latest
and greatest AI tools, you know, than
than uh the other way around. Um so uh
yeah that the team construction thing is
is uh as long as you can kind of think
about AI as a core primitive to how we
build it into the product it's much
easier to take the domain expert to it
and the good thing is that like you know
um there are electrical engineers who
are like incredibly bright and who love
sitting at the cutting edge of a product
and our team doesn't you know we have
some folks that come from large capital
projects in oil and gas and energy world
but the majority of people are like they
work on you know cutting edge vehicles
rockets um that type of background
David Day like maybe similar similarly
in some ways I don't know if the same
sort of capital incentive structures
align but like electrical engineers are
sort of famous for no no offense because
you yourself are an electrical engineer
for um be what's the right word like
being fixed in their way
&gt;&gt; opinionated and tasteful that's I think
what you're looking for but
&gt;&gt; tasteful yes
&gt;&gt; very Italian very Italian of them um how
do you how do you get people to change
the way they work.
&gt;&gt; So this is something that we had to
think about like very hard at the like
beginning of diode like when the idea
was in its like very infancy. It was
more about there is a painoint that I am
feeling myself when I like go through
the process of designing hardware and
there is a new technology that very
clearly holds the keys to solving a lot
of this painoint. how like if I had to
like give this technology to the world,
how would I give it? And so one somewhat
obvious like answer that you could have
thought about in like 2020 would have
been let me build like you know CAD
software and that that's fine and like
CAD software has its own like
idiosyncrasies as an industry. It's a
very high like switch cost there.
There's a lot of like reasons why
building a like CAD software business is
complicated. Our goal was if you truly
make the leap of faith that the models
will do it themselves eventually. What
you want to build is you want to build
the infrastructure for the models to be
able to u like go and do these things
which are not currently able to do and
you don't want to convince people to buy
your software. You want to convince
people to buy the end product. And this
is a much harder company to build. it
does require a much larger width of like
the market. And so today the way that we
like explain ourselves to our enterprise
customers like Fortune 100 companies is
not hey we're going to sell you like a
software product. It's more you are used
to like uh effectively working with
companies that deliver the exact same
product which is I give you my
specifications I get back a physical
product. We fit into that mold and then
how we do it is an implementation detail
to the company but we do it faster and
we do it cheaper which is what matters
at the end of the day. Also we have some
major advantages like we offer uh in
introspection into how the process
happens. You see in real time like your
board being like designed and delivered.
Uh something that like uh engineers are
very used to like software engineers
like you can think about it as like a
pull request on GitHub like you see the
code like streaming in real time. um
this was not really the case.
&gt;&gt; The checks passing.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. That's exactly right. And
so so basically this is how we pitched
it to the point where like our core
compiler tool chain is open source. Like
we actually if any electrical engineer
wants to take it and run with it. Please
be my guest because what we did is like
once you generate an artifact it will
work in our ecosystem. We will be able
to take it and send it for
manufacturing. This is like we want to
own the infrastructure not the like core
design primitives and we are very
bullish that those design primitives
will be very helpful to both humans and
like agents. So this is the bet that we
made. It's a the infrastructure is open
source. You can go look at it on GitHub
diodecb.
We have a lot of people that actually
are trying it in like a closed beta
where they give us feedback and they use
our internal tools that we haven't
released yet. And we will release more
and more tools. But the way that we are
harnessing that power is by doing
everything end to end. And like the you
know Alex put it beautifully like you
need to do enough. If you try to do too
much at like too early you dilute
yourself and your focus becomes really
complicated. Um, the other benefit of
like this strategy is a lot of the times
the AI is not 100% of the way there and
like you want to be able to place
company like defining bets even if the
product itself may not quite be 100%
there. And so like for example, we are
90% more efficient at building boards
than we were in a world without our
tools. But if we were to give these
tools like there's still 10% of work
required which is why people like pay
our current services right now and like
the eventual goal is as the models get
better that percentage goes down and
down and down until it's like fully
self-service and you can reap the
rewards and basically manufacture right
away.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I I mean I think you both touched
on this sort of like time money. It's
like sell the thing that the customer
knows how to buy.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Totally.
&gt;&gt; I mean a project finance like truly time
is money. Like if if it's a a project
that gets one year takes one year to
build versus a project that takes five
years bu to build at the same cost is a
very different IRR to
&gt;&gt; totally I mean the value prop for us is
not that it's cheaper uh from an
engineering perspective engineering is
such a small percentage of the cost
anyway that no one wants to compress
that it is that if you can bring in the
schedule by three months or six months
that actually material impacts
materially
&gt;&gt; finance ability yeah so maybe moving to
you know building physical world AI how
how have you guys worked to get AI to
understand kind of your physics and real
physical and real world constraints that
that that matter like there's no common
crawl for you know construction design
data or um m maybe there's a little bit
more data availability on the on the
board side but probably not much that's
that's digitized and that's that's easy
to access. So how do you get enough data
to even work with to to train the models
that you guys are using? Maybe I'll
start because I have the easiest path.
Like in general, by the way, my company
is much easier than like Alex. I admire
Alex and I respect him a lot because I
think that his domain is like a very
beautiful and complicated domain. I do
simple things. I build electronics. So
we cheat like instead of requiring a ton
of data, we reframe the program with
something that there is a ton of
training data on which is code. Like
traditional electronics is not designing
code at all. And in fact, very tasteful
electrical engineers despise the idea of
writing code. And that's fine. Like we
don't want anybody who doesn't want to
write code to write it. Let the model
write the code. The model is amazing at
writing code. It understands the
concepts. We basically built a compiler
that gives the model enough hints that
it feels like it's writing a Python
program instead of designing a circuit
boards. So this is how we got around the
schematics problem. Um there's a lot of
like actual physical like you know you
know physics problem.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you're you're literally
putting something on a on a square that
has to fit into some sort of form
factor. So you do have physical
constraints beyond just the code.
&gt;&gt; That's exactly right. And there there is
no data. Like you're right that there is
much more data than in construction, but
like the data is like two orders or
three orders of magnitude smaller than
what you would need to train a
foundation model to actually do the the
proper job. Um but because this is a
physicsbased problem that you you see
companies in the space trying to
tackling the like you know the actual
hey how do I represent it like
physically and we actually see like
agent models being able to slowly and
kind of painfully like starting to be
able to do it the same way that a human
would for example uh we also have like
some moonshot projects in the works that
maybe like we'll we'll chat about it
next time like I I'm basically I will
just say I'm very bullish on diffusion
as an architecture that that's what I
will say like for this specific problem
and the the the thing is like you need
to bootstrap it somehow and for us the
bootstrapping comes from code first
build a library of validated blocks
those blocks become training data for
the next round of models and so you you
build basically build a compounding
interest also if you become the rails
that everybody can design for free on
that is data that comes your way like
and like as long as you give enough
incentives and say, "Hey, I'm going to
manufacture in the US at a cost
competitive with Asia," which is unheard
of effectively, and you can do it
profitably, which is very important. Uh
you will be able to actually like
generate the amount of data that makes
the model just like skyrocket in
accuracy. So, this is like where we want
to eventually go. H
&gt;&gt; how about you guys?
&gt;&gt; Uh super that's super cool to hear.
Yeah. Same philosophy is like everything
is code.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And uh if you can play in a language
that the models already understand, your
life is like a bajillion times easier.
Um, and so for us it's like the industry
really works much more maybe
deliverables based or output focused
where you're always thinking about it.
It's like everything's a snowflake. It's
like always end of one.
&gt;&gt; Um, which is the core fundamental
problem of why it takes so long and we
don't get better. Like we're not
improving our rate of building these
projects. Um, and so our world looks
much more like modelled. It's like how
do you actually embody all the
relationships into some really robust
model that um,
&gt;&gt; when you say model, what do you mean by
model? like an AI model or more of like
an ontological model.
&gt;&gt; Ontological model like a a repres a a
simple repres representation of a
complex system.
&gt;&gt; Sorry, my my my my palente
&gt;&gt; Yeah, did it kick in for a minute. Um uh
and uh you basically have a combination
of like provide an an an environment
that agents um and and uh LLMs can
generate a bunch of code that um fits
within this framework that we've
provided it and it has the ability to
use all these deterministic tools almost
the same way a regular engineer would.
&gt;&gt; And if you can do that in this like
modelled way, you basically have this
like parametric relationship to
everything. And what's really important
is that well every time you tweak and
adjust it just gets better and it
improves its like resilience. So um yeah
probably like the the biggest way that
that shows up for our customers is that
in you know if you spend six months
designing something um and say you have
another like three months before you
kind of lock everything and you you fund
the project and you build it.
&gt;&gt; If you want to change something six
months in
&gt;&gt; uh yeah it's you'd like start over. It's
like cascade
&gt;&gt; literally. Yeah. It's and it's a total
total nightmare. Um in this version it's
like it's everything's just a it's just
like an updated variable. Um so it's
highly uh both optimized but also um uh
you can iterate on these things. Um so
yeah it's it's both it's basically this
combination of a very modelled um
approach that allows you to use these
agents to write code which is what they
know how to do
&gt;&gt; put on put on rails.
&gt;&gt; Everything is code.
&gt;&gt; Everything is computer. Um,
&gt;&gt; yeah.
&gt;&gt; How much do you guys use? It sounds like
both of you are doing some of this, but
use simulation either for data
generation or other purposes right now.
Um, uh, is that something that you're
use you see using more of in the future,
using less of, or maybe even other
techniques other than other than
simulation?
&gt;&gt; We certainly use simulation to like um
compute basically the values that are
required for the design. Um but we don't
have
&gt;&gt; give an example
&gt;&gt; like um I want to understand uh what a
mass flow rate is of a fluid that's
going through a pipe with a certain
consistency at a certain temperature and
pressure
&gt;&gt; and that's like a a weird problem that
you have to solve for that has multiple
variables that are all interdependent.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um so you run that into a simulation
environment and explores a pretty wide
space and then ideally you're goal
seeking or optimizing towards something.
So that's just a calculator. We've done
that simulation software for like
decades.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; and those are tools for us. It's like
you you kind of train an AI how to use
that specific tool, how to run a bunch
of optimizations.
&gt;&gt; Your AI like goes and uses some some um
&gt;&gt; all these simulations.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you can do that
across simulating how electrons move,
how fluids move, how uh structures move
uh when the earth shakes, all that
through simulation. And the good thing
about at least our world, the easier
thing that we have in our world is when
you think about designing any of these
big projects, it is just I mean it's
just Legos on hard mode. like you are
you are empirically saying the only way
that you validly fit these things
together um is if it's either been done
before or it perfectly matches up from
an inputs and outputs perspective. So it
is uh it is it's an extremely like
calculable answer um in in almost all
scenarios versus something that's a
little bit more like we have to predict
how it will provide in an environment
where we actually have no data against
it. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; So I have two answers like we have a ton
of simulation already because our world
is made for that like we've had tools in
like electrical engineering like spice
at the schematics level um and then like
uh you know electromagnetic simulation
kernels um like open EMS on the open
source or like answers on the like
actual board level. Uh both of these
things exist and are used in the
industry and are very important. Um I
think that the way that we currently use
simulation is to give a grounding to the
model if there is like some
reinforcement learning in the loop. Like
you basically can build a circuit and
it's very easy to determine whether or
not that circuit is correct without
relying on a golden reference like I
blessed this specific configuration. You
can build it in many different ways. As
long as you achieve your output, you're
good. So simulation in that case very
important. We we have it. we continue we
will continue to use here.
The thing that I am very hopeful for is
that
electrical engineers today do not most
of the times rely on pure simulation
anytime that they build a board like
they have a really good internal like
intuition for like why uh like the
design is done in a certain way. They
almost use the simulation as a way to
sort of verify that as the last step
versus as the design.
&gt;&gt; That's exactly right. So what I like my
eventual goal is that simulation become
a becomes a train time tool that you use
for the model to become better at
developing that taste
&gt;&gt; having that intuition
&gt;&gt; because at at inference time you don't
want to like simulation has some like
properties like it's not super fast like
you can speed it up with like parallel
like kernels and you can do a lot of
things but simulation is fundamentally
something that we hope to use at
training time rather than at inference
time and we we built the hooks to to do
it because it's important to like ground
physicality like you basically need to
provide ground truth somehow. Um but we
are really seeing like emerging
properties where if you train the model
with enough data it will develop that
taste and in 95% of the cases that's
what you want. You get the product very
fast and it's very very hard to beat
actual manufacturer hardware. Like the
best engineers I know will spend like
three weeks simulating something and
then like they will be like I don't
trust it until I actually built it and
put it in an enclosure where will change
completely my electromagnetic properties
for example. So it's just like to like
simulation needs to be a training tool
and then you kind of need to get physics
to tell you you're right or you're
wrong. So reducing the training time is
probably the most important part. I
mean, you you said earlier, David, like
90 you could 90% do the design and
there's still like 10% left where you
have a human I mean you have a team of
of amazing electrical engineers that
basically goes and checks every design
and and finishes them like do you think
to close that last gap is there will do
we need some sort of a fundamental
breakthrough in ML or in AI research to
like to to understand the physical world
to to make that leap or is it more just
further developing or scaling up
existing systems or you think that's the
wrong question to even ask like
automating that last whether it's 10 or
five or 1% doesn't really actually
matter that much. So u my co-founder who
his name is Lenny he is the smarter one.
So I I will say this is a very important
premise. Him and I have like
philosophical disagreement on this. Like
I think that
basically we already have all the
building blocks. My personal take is
that the largest like the last frontier
standing is we don't have enough data
like on like circuit boards specifically
at the very least like there's a lot of
things that you can do and it will work
but the data is like the thing that we
need to generate as a society if we want
circuit boards to be automated by AI the
data exists it's usually siloed into
like you know the apples meta like
SpaceX of the world and they will not
like obviously fork it over but
individually none of this is enough like
you you really need to pull it. So we
either like you know great collaboration
everybody open sources their data which
I think is unlikely or we find a way to
basically like produce enough data that
the models get like inherently better
and if a new architecture comes out
amazing you can be more efficient and
you can have less data. That's my
current take but there is another
competing take which is Lenny's side of
the argument. plenty of stake. Yeah,
&gt;&gt; that that's right. Um, which a lot of
these problems are really well
structured for like Monte Carlo research
reinforcement learning style like the
you know where you can basically like
formulate a problem where like two
players like playing against each other
and they get better just by nature of
like improving like recursively.
I I don't know like I usually defer to
his opinion. So I will say that maybe
there is a world where we don't need any
more data and like the like the things
are already on the table and we just
need to kind of like tickle them the
right way. Um in the meantime because
this is an open question we will focus
on building the thing end to end and we
will bridge the 10% however we need to.
Um but but I'm very hopeful. It's like
at the current pace of improvement in
both architecture and data like
generation capabilities like
breakthroughs will happen and you need
to be able to harness them and you want
to be in a position where you benefit
from them and you're not on their path.
&gt;&gt; Your your area seems like uh for lack of
a better word almost more like permeable
in that it's less of a controlled
system. So you have there's a lot more
variables like the wind or I don't know
whatever there's stuff that sort of
blows in and might affect you that is
hard to be represented by a model. So
from like outside in my read would be
there will probably have to be this more
of the a human in the loop forever. But
maybe you disagree with me and you're
like we are going to have fully
endto-end
designed
you know largecale industrial projects
and Aaron you're totally wrong.
&gt;&gt; What do you think?
&gt;&gt; Um I think
&gt;&gt; and does it take a new breakthrough to
get there?
&gt;&gt; Uh no I think our problem is like we
have it's even more sparse. So it's like
hard to
&gt;&gt; we you know we're not an order of
magnitude or two8. Yeah. Yeah. So it's
we don't even really have that as an
option on the table. Um I do think that
most all those problems can be bounded
and that the kind of benefit of this
space is there is an incredible amount
of standards that govern govern how
something should be built. Um so uh
there will always be a optimization
benefit from having more um more data
points that you can feed in or more
nuanced information. Um but to kind of
beat status quo is just the bar is so
unbelievably low. So uh yeah I would I
would say take the under on it and I
think we will be at end to end. I think
it's actually an important design
paradigm is like for us specifically is
like making sure that you design the
system to actually be fully autonomous
and to not be human in the loop. I think
it it for us at least it feels like it's
driven a very different architecture.
Now we we similarly have put the bet
that like the model does get better and
if it doesn't then you know we're maybe
back to the drawing board on aspects or
like we have something that
fundamentally a gap we'll have to close.
Um but yeah the the the the system
itself needs to be kind of designed with
the requirement that says this this is
designed to be end to end automated.
Maybe switching gears to talk a little
bit more. I mean, I think
physical world automation, physical AI,
whether it's robots running around or
something else in feels very like from a
sort of society level perspective. I
think, you know, people are scared of
it. People are thinking about it. It's
very much in the in the zeitgeist. I
think it's a truly exciting boon to, you
know, American industrial growth. But
there would probably be people that take
the other side of that argument, I
guess. Like, so switching gears to that
then, like maybe let's start with
humanoids. That's a big contentious
topic. Um,
you know, for David, in the context of
manufacturing on your end and for you on
the in the context of like actually
running around and construct on a
construction site and moving material,
you know, overhyped, underhyped, does it
matter? Curious to get your uh your hot
takes on on humanoids.
&gt;&gt; Well, I'm like super excited for the
future to like feel like the future. Um,
yeah, I think that that's like
incredibly inspiring. Like I want to
live in that world. Um, it'll it'll
definitely be a core component of us.
And I think humanoid is like for the
whole like
&gt;&gt; and humanoids in particular versus like
specific fit for purpose robots that are
like, "Oh, I'm really good at moving
lumber or I'm like a concrete pore
robot."
&gt;&gt; I mean, and they'll they'll totally be
like all the above on stuff. Like
there's going to be just broadly more
automation at large. Um but yeah,
there's there's a reason that like
centralizing around a design and mass
manufacturing that design ultimately,
you know, the efficiency that you get
out of manufacturing a thing and that
learning rate and driving cost down
incredibly low um outweighs the nuanced
custom efficiency and uh so yeah, I
think that that form factor will be very
very relevant for like an incredible
scope and there will be specialized
robotics too in the same way that like
when you engineer giant facilities
there's always these like kind volume to
surface sales surface area scaling laws
that say you should customize that giant
vessel and it's not you know always
standardized. Um but yeah
&gt;&gt; what do you think do are you going to
have humanoids on your on your PCB
manufacturing line?
&gt;&gt; So I have the luxury of loving all
robots equally. I don't care if they're
humanoid. I don't care if they're
special. They all have PCBs. I love
them. They have PCBs inside them. I love
you. Um, I think that for our specific
process,
I think that we like electronics
specifically and like circuit boards
particularly are
already so automated that your goal is
to bridge that gap and so like it can be
a humanoid. I'm very very bullish on VAS
or like I I I suspect that there will be
a lot of improvements that to that like
remaining 20% of work that needs to be
done that you can do with you know a
robotic arm which already exists in
terms of hardware with like smarter
ability to discriminate components and
like have the ability to do computer
vision on the fly. I do think that there
will be a little bit of that and in fact
like I think that this is probably like
a great optimization that you can do
like I'll give you like a very specific
example to our use case there like if
you want to um solder very chunky
components you have two options you have
either like you do it by hand so you
take a human and you do it or you have a
machine called um like a wave reflow
oven which is basically a huge molten
pole of tin that like I I went like to
Europe like I was visiting some
manufacturers and they told me it's
literally so expensive to heat up the
tin in terms of energy that we don't
turn it on because the volume that we do
is like not worth it so we'll just like
do it by hand so that kind of thing
feels like it's very achievable to
automating robotics but this is like a
marginal thing in our assembly line what
I don't think is a marginal thing is
like if you look at the implication of
what like um automating knowledge work
looks like today like at some point
there will like there is a vastly larger
like chunk of the economy that needs
like you to do something like if you
need to mine ore like somebody needs to
mine that ore and it can be a machine or
it can be a human hopefully not a human
like not the greatest job that like you
want to like you don't want to put
humans in harm's way like you want to be
able to actually have uh the robots that
do this kind of stuff and so what we
want to do is like you want to be able
to be uh part of this like you want to
be able to facilitate this like one
example is actuators like we have some
IP in like motor controlling. Um I have
a good friend David Hansen who builds
beautiful motors with like western
magnetics uh materials and we want to
build them like we want to build this
kind of stuff. we want to be part of
this and I don't know like if I would
like 100% bet on a specific form factor
like we invest and like we we really
like robots that are specific like pick
and place machines are basically robots.
Um but I think that uh like there will
be more and more and more and so this is
like part of the bet that we're making.
you kind of touched on something that I
think is important which is this sort of
tacit knowledge that I think Dan Wang
calls it the process knowledge which
China has in spades which you know the
US has to some degree but it's we have
an aging workforce and some of these
kind of skilled labor where whether it's
manufacturing engineers or highly
skilled you know construction engineers
or civil engineers or electrical
engineers
these people that you know work in these
physical fields and have uh developed an
intuition and a taste and understanding
of what works and what doesn't. How
important is that to capture? Um is
there a way to start encoding that in
these models or should we be really
thinking you know as a society about how
to train up the next generation of this
type of worker that historically has
been really valuable um and is and
retiring quickly. I do think there is a
lot of there's a lot of tacet knowledge
in the industry that helps be more like
a shortcut or a rule of thumb to the
right answer that you can just first
principles derive.
&gt;&gt; So there is a scenario where you you
know you can do a heck of a lot more
work when your marginal cost goes to
zero. It's totally fine. We solve the
problem.
&gt;&gt; But like where it really is is in like
the trades like the electrician and how
they work and there is an incredible
amount of tacid knowledge there. Um,
which yeah, I think is both a yeah, like
a a challenge. And yes, we need so many
more of them. I'm I don't know if this
is this could totally be the wrong
number, but I I would guess that the
average salary of an electrician in
Texas right now is higher than like a
Silicon Valley software engineer. Like
it's incredible. Like super demanded.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I I I was um talking to the
I think this was last year. I was
talking to this CTO at Microsoft and he
was telling me that one time Microsoft
employed a third of the electricians in
the state of Georgia.
&gt;&gt; Oh my goodness.
&gt;&gt; When they were building a big data
center there, which is just wild.
&gt;&gt; People are turning to manufacturing for
a lot of the data center scope just
because there's not enough trades to
there's not enough people in the trades
to build these projects. And so the only
alternative is you you mass manufacture
these things where you concentrate labor
in a
&gt;&gt; in a modular scenario.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; even at a premium from a cost
perspective. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; So, uh yeah, there is there is we again
it's a little bit of an all of the above
strategy um where you would need to say,
"Yeah, we should totally be training
more people on very practical skills
that that are going to be needed for a
while. Um and uh and then hopefully
start to codify a lot of that so that
when we really want to go into scale
mode um in a in a real world of
abundance when like intelligence falls
to zero, then um yeah, it'd be great to
embody that into robotics too."
&gt;&gt; Yeah. What do you think, David? Um, do
we need more uh PCB manufacturer
technicians?
My take on this is the biggest cultural
disconnect, which by the way, like this
is something that when I was uh like
visiting and like living in Hong Kong,
you see in spades, is that a lot of the
the result of being able to just like
send your designs like kind of like
ivory tower like you are designing in
the US and then sending to manufacturer
some somewhere else. Yeah, you're
obstructing the manufacturing somewhere
else. You kind of don't feel that pain
like the the pain is really like
disconnected and that's why like the
design for manufacturing muscle kind
atrophies.
Um I think that like more so than like
the knowhow on the like line it's this
idea that like the person that designs
the board will be the same that
manufactures it or very close like their
friends. for example, like if you look
at a lot of electrical engineering
design done in China, it's designed like
even if it doesn't matter so that it's
easy to make. Like it it's very like
it's visceral. Like I had this friend
who would like I was like why why why do
you make your boards like so cramped?
Like like why why just do it on double
side? He looks at me and he's like but
then you have to do two like passes on
the SMT line. I'm like but it's not you.
But he's like, "No, but it's like, you
know, I know the person who's going to
do it and it's like, my board is going
to arrive later and it's going to be
more expensive. Like, I'm I'm just going
to spend a little bit more time
designing it." And this is like very
cultural and like I think that what what
is missing at least in the circuit board
is like this very visceral connection.
And I I don't know that you can just
like artificially manufacture it or, you
know, hire your way into it or pill
people out of retirement. I think that
the like the only way is through at this
point. And so you basically need to find
a very cheap way to generate these DFM
ready designs like and Claude doesn't
care if you bash it and say yes like
this is good but make it more
manufacturable make it more
manufacturable like or like you say hey
these are like 150 checks go through all
of them and like painstakingly change
the artifact until it's easy for me to
make it. Um and then like of course like
there are very smart people already like
all the contract manufacturers for uh
PCBs in the US are very talented like
actually the capabilities of contract
manufacturers in the US are super high
because they only bid on like military
contracts which require the highest
possible capabilities but what you want
to build is like this new set of mass
production capabilities which has been
kind of evaporated by the industry
because the economics didn't make sense.
Um, and we are betting on doing it by
like teaching the designer, which in
this case is not a human necessarily, to
do it for you.
&gt;&gt; I think that's a really really important
point. It kind of brings me to my
closing question for both of you, which
is
both of you are talking about how do we
use, you know, AI in in the physical
world to like do more of something? um
whether it's build more design and build
more PCBs in the US, be able to you know
pay for and construct and design and
construct more kind of large scale
industrial projects. Um how do you guys
think about the second order effects of
that? Like maybe this is gets to sort
the mission statement of why you guys
are are are working on what you're
working on. Um, but maybe that's a good
place to kind of leak to to to close the
conversation
&gt;&gt; for me. Like I feel this pain personally
like I want to be able to spin up a
hardware company the same way that my
friends spin up B2B SAS. Like you should
be able to say I want to do something
that's considered very hard and just go
and do it. And I think that the second
order effects are um today we have what
is effectively like the equivalent of
curing cancer like happening in
artificial intelligence. It's like this
marvelous thing that if you three years
ago you gave somebody like cloud code
they would have like thought that you
were I don't know like a sorcerer or
something. like it is that good, but
it's also so bad at like actually
delivering physical products and it's
like marvelous because it can do it in
some capacity, but we really need to
basically have the same like u step-wise
improvement that we had for software. We
need to have the same thing for physical
design in order for American engineers,
American like teenagers to be passionate
about building physical things and say,
I want to build a cube set and like put
it in orbit and do cool things with it
and it's easy because I can just spin up
and like have my boards manufacture next
day. I think that those are the second
order effects that I am interested in
like and the only way that we get that
is if we teach models to actually do
like things in the real world which is
my like I enjoy this a lot like this is
why we we started a company. Yeah. Yeah,
I mean for us it's like I don't know if
you if you look at like basically any in
the US at least any construction metric
so like labor productivity or adjusted
capex numbers over the past like 50
years we're getting worse like and I I
you know my past life I come from the
world of software where it's just like
de facto everything gets better there's
always progress and that is like clearly
not true in this space and you
extrapolate that line out and yeah we
just like lose how to lose the muscle of
knowing how to build large ambitious
projects and um Yeah, that's like the
graph I see when I like close my eyes at
the end of the night. And so for us,
it's like, you know, are we able to do
an aspect of the of of kind of what this
life cycle of building these projects
looks like an order of magnitude better
so that we earn the right to redo the
whole thing and um and solve it from,
you know, kind of incentives down is how
do you build an just an absolute like
order of magnitude or orders of
magnitude more from a project's
perspective. And that's everything from
like the energy that we need to actually
like win in AI and uh build all these
data centers to all the like advanced
manufacturing companies that uh we're
doing to reindustrialize and just to
build just an a massive amount of stuff
that we need um all the way through
critical minerals. So yeah, there is
just like the core bones of how
basically all this stuff that you see
when you look around works. Um like
we're getting worse at and that's like a
very very concerning thing.
&gt;&gt; Cool. Well, this is really fun. I'm glad
both of you are working on your
respective problems. Um, I'm glad you're
in our portfolio because it's it's um,
you know, I'm leaving this conversation
optimistic. Um, but yeah, thanks so
much.
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
