原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=23pp6HX1R7U

Here's the thing that people don't
realize about AI.
It's like we're living like multiple
multiple years in one in terms of
progress. So, we're taking like the
2020s and the 2030s and the 2040s, and
we're condensing it into the next few
years. Mhm. And and and it's I mean, the
breakthroughs we have which is on the
airplane side, you know, airplanes were
basically stuck for 60 years, right? No
one believed anything would happen.
You're going to start having like way
more efficient, way better airplanes
coming out in the next few years thanks
to AI. And it's going to be like a shock
or whatever and everyone's like, "What
the heck? These guys actually have
hydrogen fuel cells working now. No
one's ever got them working on planes."
So, the So, hydrogen fuel cells three
times more efficient per weight, two
times more efficient per conversion
energy. So, it's six times more
efficient for flying as a fuel in the
air, which is pretty amazing. And then
you have the new shapes of airplanes,
new designs of airplanes that we've
thought about for years, never really
been able to test. And the new designs
are multiple times more efficient, too.
You do the multiplication, six times
even if it's only three, that's 18
times. All of a sudden, air travel's
super cheap, way better for everyone in
the 2030s, right? So, it's just like the
world's in a really good place thanks to
this AI. Like, this stuff really
matters.
Yeah, I mean, everybody's really
concerned, but I mean, it does I mean,
I've been concerned, too. I've been
worried, but It's It's a lot of change.
I think Yeah, but I I mean, I just I I I
think we're going to be better off when
we get on the other end of this. I think
we already are better off. I think it's
already getting better, but it's going
to be a huge leap the next 5 or 10
years.
And listen, I think it's fair to be
scared. I'll tell you if I I've had to
make the other argument, what am I most
scared of? I I think it's really good
that Elon's doing
xAI cuz I think it shifts everything
window because you don't want just a
bunch of woke companies in charge.
I I listen, I think there's people I
respect at Anthropic despite the fight
they've had with the department and
stuff, and there's some but there's some
leftists there, too. I think OpenAI kind
of let themselves be conquered by the
left. Uh I think Elon with what he's
done is kind of pushing everything else
to be more rational, basically. And that
cuz it cuz it would be scary. Let's say
you only had woke authoritarian AI
things that are all of a sudden ruling
against
&gt;&gt; Mhm. everything you and I believe.
That'd be bad. So, so, so listen, I
think there are things we got to watch
for and and be careful with, but but
this stuff is going to make so much
wealth for everyone.
I mean, how how do we
I think the big question in my mind is
how
how do we regulate it, but remain
competitive on the world stage?
I think I think I think there's certain
&gt;&gt; And your next governor here, she's she's
kind of more on the regulation side, uh
right? Blackburn, Senator Blackburn.
She's one of the ones who kind of kind
of kind of pushes that. And listen, I
respect where she's coming from in
certain areas. I think you want to
protect children, for sure. I think
that's right. I think there could be
certain there could be certain rules on
privacy we all agree on that we want to
put in place. I think that's fair,
without breaking everything, right? Um
you know, I think there's probably
should be some rules about what kind of
uh images you can create about people.
You shouldn't just be able to like take
a picture of a of a of of a of a one of
our wives and do whatever they want with
it in a video. That's not fair. I don't
know. That's kind of messed up, right?
It's like there's probably things like
that that we should People are trying to
protect for civilized society. I I you
know, so so I I I I I think the best way
to do this is to do it nationally.
I mean, Congress is so dysfunctional on
both sides right now. They're so
dysfunctional. Like really what you do
is you have moderates work together
nationally. Put some basic basic things
in that we all agree on, and then just
like let it be free, and then come back
and revisit if something else is broken.
Like that would be my take, you know?
So, you you you're pretty much on the
you don't want much regulation at all. I
want to protect kids, and I want to I
want to protect creators. I think but
but but you know, Senator Blackburn's
big on protecting creators. There's
probably some rules there. That's that's
that's that's fair, too. So, I think
there's basic things you could do, for
sure, and there's some compromise.
But but I think right now, the vast
majority of regulations in this country,
like there's 9 million words per state
Sean of regulations. 9 million words per
state. The vast majority is big
companies stopping small companies and
stopping new innovative companies from
from disrupting their business more
efficiently. Like that is what
regulation mostly does. Let's be honest,
right? And and and and here here's a
crazy thing. like like so one time of
regulation is licenses. You need
licenses to do things.
Right? So there's there's a thousand
different types of things you might need
a license to do. Mhm. There's only 50 of
them that you need a license in every
state to do. So right away from the
start, 95% of the things that they force
licenses for is clearly just protecting
their guild because it's perfectly safe
to do without a license in another
state. Right? So so most of this stuff
is guilds and big companies creating
regulations to stop others.
Um and then and then and then healthcare
by the way, that's exactly what it is.
Healthcare costs so much money cuz we
put so many rules that you can't
compete. Yeah. It's it's it's it's
literally crazy amount of rules. You
have to spend tens of millions of
dollars just to get going and you can't
even do a new thing cuz they've they've
blocked all the new stuff you could do.
So like this is like our country the
areas where we have high costs where
everyone suffers where where the middle
class where the working class suffers is
the areas where these guys have put in
thousands and tens of thousands of
rules. And by the way, that's like good
for guys like me. If I just wanted to
make tens of billions of dollars, I
could put in all sorts of rules that I
could afford the [ __ ] lawyers to go
to go follow those rules, right? Like
like guys in my situation who've built
multiple big companies, like we could
deal with regulation. We can afford it.
We could we could figure it out. But but
it but but but it crushes any new thing
trying to compete. Cuz that's [ __ ]
We shouldn't be crushing all these new
things. What about AGI?
So this is the this is the this is the
like this is like the do we create a new
god question, right? Cuz that's like
obviously
a fair question and it's Didn't Jensen
Huang just come out and say we're like
we're there?
There's AGI, there's ASI which is like
general intelligence versus like
systemic intelligence. There's I think I
think law people are defining when do we
create something that has more
intelligence than all of humanity
combined. It can do things that none of
us combined can do. And there's the
question is like what's the what's the
level?
Um
I'm not even sure it's the right way to
think about it cuz it's really more of a
tool right now for lots of things. But
sure, let's just let's just you know
I I think it's a fair question like do
at some point you create something that
has like so much more
intelligence that's just so far ahead of
you all that somehow that somehow it
takes over. And I I listen, I think
right now I'm much more afraid of what
people are going to do with AI.
I'm not saying you couldn't somehow
create something that would that would
that would do that. I think you have to
be smart. I think that's more of like a
10-20 year from now question. Uh but
it's definitely a question to watch for.
And I think I think as you're building
AI, one of the things it does as a tool
is helps us analyze and understand
uh what's coming next. And we have to
have It's actually really good there's
lots of these companies cuz we all need
to be using these in different ways to
understand and analyze and make sure we
we're aware of what we're building.
