原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pyWnKbOEqH4

There's a lot of doom and gloom on the
internet, but there's no jobs. AI's
taking all the jobs. It's completely
false. How is AI impacting small
business? These service businesses are
the last businesses to be impacted.
These businesses will only go up in
value. A lot of people think of AI and
they think of cost cutting. That's not
the right lens to look at small
businesses. How can we leverage AI to
reduce the amount of monotonous work
that you're doing and reallocate it to
something that generates revenue?
There's a huge opportunity for young
people to capitalize from this wave.
We're literally creating millionaires on
Main Street.
&gt;&gt; CEO and co-founder
County Department of
Coaster.
Will Fry is CEO and founder of American
Operator. This is one of the most
exciting areas of our economy in the
coming years. We have trillions of
dollars of transactions because baby
boomers are retiring, able to buy these
businesses at three or four times cash
flow. The government actually helps
people become owners and American
operator wants to help tens of thousands
of people become new owners. It's a
great area to invest in. I'm personally
investing a lot into this area. And I'm
really excited to hear from Will how AI,
how innovation, how everything going on
is going to transform this area of the
small business economy. A lot of young
people are wondering what should their
job be in the AI area. You don't need as
many people joining law firms. You don't
need as many analysts at banks or at
McKenzie. You know what? We need a lot
more owners in the American economy. We
need millions more owners. Over two
million businesses that have to be sold
that people need to run. If you're a
smart young person, you should look into
this area. Welcome to American Optimist.
Happy to have with us Will Fry, the CEO
of American Operator.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Thanks for having me, Joe.
&gt;&gt; Will, you are are empowering huge number
of people to become owners. You're
helping support owners, really focus on
the small business ecosystem, big part
of our economy. Let's start with your
background a little bit first though.
You grew up in a small town in North
Carolina.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, Drew and I Drew and I share that.
uh grew up in Greenville, North
Carolina. It's a town about 70,000
people. A bunch of tobacco fields,
baseball fields, and small businesses.
&gt;&gt; Tobacco fields, baseball fields, and
small businesses. I love it. What small
business did you remember from your
childhood? Like what stands out to you
as a business?
&gt;&gt; So, the Stallings familyowned uh
portagon business. And so for the local
State College, East Carolina University,
anytime there was a baseball game,
football game, you'd see the Stallings
Porter John's out there. And they made a
good living doing it. Uh hauling waste
and bringing around por johns.
&gt;&gt; I love it. What? Give me one other one.
Porter John Jones. What else do you
remember?
&gt;&gt; I mean, so my mom owned a small family
medicine uh practice. There's obviously
uh that in the community. There's
roofing, kitchen repair and appliance.
We have a good family friend who owns a
uh family farm. So do a lot of soybeans,
tobacco,
&gt;&gt; small business. With kitchen repair and
appliance these days, do people still
repair things?
&gt;&gt; Uh so it's largely commercial oriented.
Okay.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So coming into a big you have like
a big like industrial you got to
obviously you got to repair these things
when they break.
&gt;&gt; I love it. So you went on you went to
Penn and then Wharton for business.
&gt;&gt; That's correct. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Good business school. So So how did you
become an entrepreneur after this?
&gt;&gt; So I actually started in high school. Um
I love building things. At the time it
was electronic kits uh like 360 in one
and then the app store came out when I
was in middle school.
&gt;&gt; So electronic kits. What does that mean?
&gt;&gt; So you could essentially build like
little motorized cars. You essentially
buy those. They come with like diodes,
transistors, the whole nine yards. You
figure out how to wire them up. Uh no
one really wants to buy the the piece of
crap that you built, but you you build
it and you show your friends. And so,
uh, did that throughout throughout
middle school and then the app store
came out and then that was kind of the
aha moment of you have all of your
friends who have their parents' credit
card wired up to the app store and you
could build software and people would
pay you 99 cents to download your app.
Um,
&gt;&gt; what was one of those silly apps you
built?
&gt;&gt; I built obviously a version of Pong.
That's kind of like the intro to it. I
uh I then built uh a number of apps for
I won this like competition for the EPA.
You could essentially see the emissions
uh in in the local town. So, I thought
that was kind of cool. Um,
&gt;&gt; so it's like Captain Planet missions.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. It was like gified. You
can kind of like play around. So that
&gt;&gt; pick up trash or go help something.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You could see like the kind of
what the water levels were and what was
in the water. Um,
&gt;&gt; that's a good idea. Rather than just
like searching for Pokémons in your
town, why not do something useful?
&gt;&gt; That was the goal. It was like, could
you build an app that kids would like to
use that gives them a little bit of
education and hopefully also doesn't
indoctrinate them? And I think we were
successful. We won an award doing it. So
did that throughout uh high school and
and then went went up to Penn for for
undergrad.
&gt;&gt; I love it. And so you came from this
like entrepreneurial kind of background,
a lot of small businesses around you.
Like when did you realize that there's
something like a mission here that
mattered for small business. There's a
crisis brewing.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So it it was actually a trip back
home um after graduating from college. A
bunch of our family friends were going
through what I would now call succession
planning or lack of succession planning.
Um so in Greenville, you know, you
graduate from high school, almost
everyone flees. They go to Raleigh,
Charlotte, Wilmington. They they they
don't want to be in Greenville. And so
the default exit plan for all of those
small businesses that I was mentioning
earlier is no longer there.
&gt;&gt; You can't just give it to your kids.
Your kids, your kids in Molly doing some
other high power job. They don't want to
come run your kitchen repair business.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And these are the same
businesses that growing up they would
sponsor. The Veterans Day parade. Their
signs were on the back of the baseball
field as little league sponsors. So it's
very clear that they're like an integral
part of the community. And the people
who ran those businesses were also
leaders in the community. So when
hurricanes come through Eastern North
Carolina, it's those businesses that are
showing up to help. um often as kind of
like the first responders and so I knew
how important it was to the communities
that these businesses stay on and stay
on in a way where there's local
ownership
&gt;&gt; and these businesses would often have
employees. So is a solution then to help
the most responsible employees become
owners?
&gt;&gt; So that's all that's always an option.
Um today at American Operator I would
say around a third of the time we're
backing an internal successor. Maybe
someone who's a VP, a general manager, a
crew leader.
Twothirds of the time they may not have
that person internally. Maybe they don't
have someone who has the risk tolerance
or the all-in nature of what it really
takes to become an owner. And so we'll
bring in a net new operator to take the
torch forward.
&gt;&gt; I love this as a career path for more
people right now. And I have a lot of
friends telling me, Joe, there's all
this AI stuff you guys are doing. It's
going to disrupt everything. There's
going to be all these people who are
white collar and they're not going to be
able to get jobs. And it seems to me
like there's like hundreds of thousands.
Is it a million businesses? How many
businesses? There's millions of
businesses. How many businesses have to
be sold over the next decade based on
it's called the silver tsunami, right?
Based on all these baby boomers, some
point they got to retire or die. Yeah.
So, so someone else has to run it like
how many businesses is this?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, if you kind of think broad
picture, you have 33 million businesses
in the US. You shrink that into 6
million have employees. So, those are
the businesses that we focus on. Of
those 6 million, roughly 2.1 are owned
by baby boomers. Um.
&gt;&gt; Wow. So, it's like more than a third of
these of these six million small
business.
&gt;&gt; Correct. And and and the problem is if
you go around, there's a lot of survey
data on this, uh around 48% actually
have a plan for what they're going to do
with the business. And so that's a huge
amount of businesses that are at risk.
Uh more importantly, so over a million
businesses are at risk. They don't even
know what they're going to do.
&gt;&gt; Correct. And and there there's
livelihoods tied up in that. Obviously,
there are a ton of employees. There's
over six million employees tied to that
kind of sector of the market. And then
what I often talk to to leaders at the
kind of municipal and state level is
that's your tax base. And you don't want
that shutting down. You also don't want,
you know, outofstate buyers coming in
consolidating. All that money is getting
funneled out of those communities and
out of your state.
&gt;&gt; I love it. And, you know, we recently
had Kelly Leler on the podcast that
could come out before this one comes
out. And so, she's running a small
business association, the SBA for
America. America's actually spends a lot
of money helping people become owners.
What role are you playing alongside what
they're doing?
&gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah. The SBA is a phenomenal
organization. If you chat with anyone um
who is not from the US, the SBA is one
of the prize jewels that they're very
very jealous of. Uh in other countries,
there are not zero uh subsidy taxpayer
programs are essentially stimulating uh
the GDP and and stimulating job creation
and and new business starts. Um so
they're really really helpful. Where we
come in is if you think about you're an
owner and and you're going to retirement
today, you kind of have two options. You
can decide to close your doors or you
could sell to an out ofstate buyer. And
you see more and more of this in the
news where private equity funds are
raising money and coming and kind of
capitalizing.
&gt;&gt; This is what everyone assumes whenever
they see me. I've obviously been
successful in other areas. If I start
talking about small business, they're
like, "Oh, it must be a private equity
thing." And and this is this is
obviously not and I'm I'm an investor in
American operator with you. This
obviously not the goal. It's not to be
PE. I mean, PE is obviously not bad in
some cases, but but but how is this
different than what PE would do?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So So we're capitalists. We're not
anti-private equity, but we do want to
build an alternative for owners who want
to keep their businesses alive in their
communities. And so what we offer them
is kind of the best of both worlds where
we bring in committed capital from
investors like you and some of our
credit partners uh to allow that owner
to walk away and go into retirement.
We'll also bring in a net new operator
who ultimately will be the majority
owner of that business.
&gt;&gt; And so they they earn into the majority.
So they start off with some owner
ownership and then we help them earn
into the majority as we get paid out.
And that and then it's their business.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. and we're literally creating
millionaires on Main Street. And to kind
of give you some quick math, um, one of
the transactions that that we can talk
about that that's been highlighted is
one called Greenway. And so the operator
that we backed there is a guy named
Anthony. He's a former combat controller
um, in the Air Force. He, you know, had
double majored in undergrad at the
University of Arizona. He before
partnering with us was running a smaller
painting contractor in Arizona. Made
about 300 400k topline. So he was taking
home around 75K. Y
&gt;&gt; we've now parachuted him as the operator
for Greenway Painting, which is based in
Jackson, Wyoming. Our friends at Fox
News recently did a piece on it. And the
really cool part there is he's drawing
around 100k base salary today. And he
has 10% ownership in a business that's
worth $2 million.
&gt;&gt; Over time, we're working with him to
grow that business. And as he goes from
10% to 70%, assuming the business
doesn't grow at all, all of a sudden he
has $1.4 million of equity in a cash
flowing business that's been around for
decades, will be around for decades to
come. And we believe that by partnering
with him and some of the resources that
we built out of American Operator, we
can really help him grow that and make
that number even bigger.
&gt;&gt; So hopefully he even owns millions of
dollars of this business. Suddenly
you're making a big success story when
before he was kind of stuck doing
something that wasn't going to be big.
Now all of a sudden he's a big business.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. We're able to take folks who
are very uh high capacity, they have
grit, they have merit and leaprog them
in their ownership career.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I love it. What's so so small
businesses like what's the context in
history in America? I think you know our
founding fathers a lot of them were
small business owners right we think of
like George Washington or John Adams or
&gt;&gt; I mean John Hancock uh ran House of
Hancock a big big import export you
obviously have Ben Franklin who amongst
thousands of things that he did in his
life one of them was uh you know run a
very famous printing uh shop and so it's
been instilled that there's this idea
you can come to this country you can
build a better life for yourself that
you're rewarded for the value you create
for your neighbors um and those are your
patrons and it's really this ownership
mentality that you see throughout about
the American dream, right? Like we're
very focused on it in small businesses.
You see the same thing in home
ownership. You see it in other other
areas of of the American life and we
really want to celebrate that ownership
uh mentality.
&gt;&gt; It does seem like really core to
America, to our towns in America, to I
mean frankly to just a lot of people who
are on the side of liberty in America. I
I feel like and obviously there's people
who work with you who are on all
political sides, but I'd imagine they
tend to be more pro- capitalism, more
pro liberty, more pro property rights.
We we work with folks from from all over
the political spectrum. I would say
everyone is pro America. I've yet to
meet a business owner who doesn't want
this country to succeed. Um and we take
that seriously. And I think one of the
cool stats is Gallup runs a poll every
year on the top institutions that
Americans trust. Small business has been
number one since the poll started. It is
44% higher uh than Congress. Obviously,
it's also 22% higher than the health
care system. Um and it has remained
number one. And I I think then you ask
yourself why is that? And it's because
no matter what the political slogan is
behind the counter, you're treated with
respect. They want to deliver value to
you. They care how you're experiencing.
&gt;&gt; They have to care about the people
around them in their community. They
have to. Otherwise, they're out
&gt;&gt; 100%.
&gt;&gt; So, so it's it's a it's a it's a good
alignment. And it's know these lives
people, they do love love America, love
our system. I feel like there's two big
trends, Will, right now in in the
business world in general. We're talking
about one of the big trends is this 10
trillion dollars worth of these
businesses that have to be sold because
baby boomers are retiring or passing
away. Uh you there's two million that
they own. So that's a massive trend. The
other big trend which we spend all my
time talking about is AI and and AI is
just changing what's possible in a lot
of ways. I'm very optimistic about it. A
lot of people have a lot of fear around
it. Like how how do they intersect? How
is AI impacting small business? What
what does it mean for for them and for
what you're doing?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um I I'll preface it by by this is
a hard business to build and and not
every investor was interested in until
about a year ago. And so we're lucky to
have met uh allies like you who who took
a bet on us early. I would say right now
we're at a very interesting thing where
we're the perfect AI hedge, but we also
have a ton of upside from AI. And what I
mean by that is that if you look at kind
of the the anthropic spider chart, these
service businesses are the last
businesses to be impacted.
&gt;&gt; If someone's going to for now, if
someone's going to come and fix your
toilet,
might not fix that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Not not yet. Uh Optimus Prime is
is not running around inside your home
fixing your toilet just yet. And so so
we're at a very interesting time where
uh these businesses will only go up in
value. They're critical for the economy
uh to function and and they do
everything from uh you know protect our
supply chain. There's a lot of metal
fabricators that we work with all the
way to making sure that you're getting
food, the food distributors, the
manufacturers uh and then the service
businesses.
&gt;&gt; So on one hand, these things are are
kind of hedged from a lot of the current
AI disruption. On the other hand, isn't
it easier to run a business with AI?
&gt;&gt; 100%. Um and that's an area that we've
been investing a lot in the past couple
of quarters. My mental framework for it
is a lot of people think of AI and they
think of cost cutting and they're like,
"Oh, we can really optimize our P&amp;L. We
can use AI, automate all these jobs, cut
costs." That's not the right lens to
look at small businesses. And it's not
right for really one reason, which is
that most of the folks in the back
office of a small business are wearing
multiple hats. If Susie does payroll,
route planning, HR, and you automate one
of those jobs, you're not coming to
Susie and saying, "Congrats, you just
got a 33% discount on your payroll."
She's going to walk out of the door and
tell you you're crazy. So what what
really it is is it's a revenue growth
story. What you have to do is work with
your employees and small businesses,
figure out, hey, how can we leverage AI
to reduce the amount of monotonous work
that you're doing and then help you
identify, okay, what's the best way for
you to take that time and reallocate it
to something that generates revenue.
&gt;&gt; I love this. I think this is a really
key point that a lot of people miss is
that there's a lot of things that we
wish we could do, we wish we could work
on, wish we could build that aren't
getting done. If you go to a small town,
like there's lots of things you can see.
There's fences that are not fixed.
There's there's like there's all sorts
of things that are broken. There's all
sorts of things in the business that
aren't necessarily able to be gotten to.
If you have more time, you can do more
output. Right.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And we we we and we see it.
Right. So, uh to give you kind of some
concrete examples on the painting
business we own. There wasn't very much
of an outbound sales motion there. It
was largely word of mouth. Uh which is
both, you know, kind of benefit. You you
have some amount of moat there. Also a
con. You don't really have the levers to
to to grow quickly. We've been able to
essentially reconfigure Claude Co-work
to do an outbound sales motion to
property managers in the area, increase
the number of uh bids out on a weekly
basis and win rate. Um on another one,
we're working with a a second generation
uh food manufacturer uh really cool
peanut business um owners also.
&gt;&gt; Peanut business. What does that mean?
What's a peanut business? Yeah. So
George Washington Carver.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So they blister peanuts in most of
the grocery stores that you're you're
probably blister, right? So they get uh
peanuts, they they put them in these
large vats where they boil them, they
they fill them with water, they then fry
them. So, the the peanuts have blisters
on them that then coat them in a lot of
different uh ingredients so they can
flavor barbecue peanuts, uh ranch
peanuts, what have you.
&gt;&gt; You're very good at saying this word.
I'm very worried about saying it on on
the air.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. I mean, now we have unlimited
nuts, right? Uh but um and so this
business uh they obviously don't have a
graphic design uh part of their team.
It's been around since the 60s. The
family has been in central PA for seven
generations actually, which is insane.
Um but recently, one of the employees
there has really gotten on the AI train.
they can now do really cool social media
marketing so they can build kind of a
direct to consumer uh peanut dynasty in
addition to the B2B. And so like it's
really cool to see these businesses that
historically have been very you know
offline if you will adopt AI and they
can really hit the ground running uh
sometimes faster than businesses that
have been uh more more AI. But I mean,
it feels like like instead of instead of
going to law school, for example, like
like or instead of like, you know, a
master's degree in sociology or I don't
know, like should more more young people
just be saying, I'm going to like go
take over and try to learn how to run a
small business.
&gt;&gt; Yes. I I think it's really important for
them to have uh time in the trenches
working with humans. I think that takes
time and and I think a lot of the things
that are happening at like Texas State
uh technical college, other areas to
essentially get you the domain expertise
about a certain industry and then get
you as much apprenticeship or time in
the trenches with them.
&gt;&gt; You have to be willing to go learn it.
Basically,
&gt;&gt; you do. You do. And and and I would say
the owners are very discerning of
someone who's full of Um if you if
you don't know what you're talking
about, if you don't have uh grit, if if
you haven't gotten dirt under your
fingernails, uh they're going to sniff
that out very quickly. The customers are
going to sniff that sniff that out
quickly. employees will so on and so
forth. And so I think there's a huge
opportunity for young people to
capitalize from this wave. But I am
always hesitant of the folks who are
kind of leaving corporate America and
thinking, oh, you know, I know so much,
it's not a get-rich quick scheme. It's
it's a it's a have a vocation, have a
career where you work hard. But if you
do work hard, you can run these things
and you can make a lot of money, be very
successful,
&gt;&gt; tons of money. You you would be
surprised. I mean, these things uh take
some of the businesses that we've worked
with just in the past couple weeks,
they're spitting off millions of dollars
in cash flow. uh uh normally most of the
family is drawing a W2 from the business
even if they're not necessarily working.
Uh and then you have you know their
whole fleet of family vehicles on it as
well. Uh there's no shortage of cash
flow here if if you know how to run a
good business.
&gt;&gt; You have to have the persistence and the
grit as you say. And so so it feels like
there's literally like millions of young
people could be doing this path. It
should be a lot of our smart young
people if they're instead of like the
white collar professional this is where
they go. Uh how do we is this a cultural
shift we need? like how do we teach more
people about this opportunity? Because I
think I think a lot of people like they
they culturally see like, oh, I'm going
to be a tech founder. I'm going to run
something at a bank in New York. I'm
going to be doing these like giant deals
at the hedge fund. They're like like
most people culturally don't think
about, oh, I'm going to go work hard and
like have a business that shoots off a
couple million dollars a year for me.
Like like what do we need to do to shift
this?
&gt;&gt; My mental model is two things. One, you
need role models in a PR campaign to
make people aware of this. Um Mike Row
has done a phenomenal job of doing that
for the trades. Um I know you're friends
with with Cody Sanchez. She's done a
good job of of of doing it for small
business as well. We need more allies
like that getting the word out that
success is not just going to a four-year
college, getting a liberal arts degree,
and then working in management
consultant. There are other areas for
you to to really build a great
&gt;&gt; These are real areas of America. In some
ways, this feels like the actual
businesses. like you're actually like
there serving the community, doing the
hard work, making sure that the electric
electricity gets fixed, the toilet gets
fixed, the fence gets painted, right?
And it's a crisis here, right? Like in
Texas, we're short 50,000 uh trades
workers. We want to win this AI war
against China. We have no shot of doing
that if we cannot build the data
centers. The data centers require the
plumbers, the electricians, the general
contractors, the HVAC tech technicians,
so on so forth. So, I'd say it's it's
critical that we attract more people in.
I think the second piece of the problem
is okay, let's say that you solve the
the PR uh campaign. How do you get on
ramps to get folks in in the saddle as
soon as possible? Right now, we have a
lot of occupational licensing that
stands in the way of hardworking
Americans being able to work in these
industries in a short time frame.
&gt;&gt; We definitely have to fix licensing.
Arizona did a great job where they take
any other license at all. And there's
there's other things trying to lower
barriers. uh like like if someone is a
young person, maybe they're in high
school, maybe someone listening has
someone they know in high school doesn't
know what path they should be taking,
like how would you direct them? Do you
go to a vocational school first? Do you
what do you do to kind of build skills
and come work in this area?
&gt;&gt; Yes, I I would say start by just
starting to intern at small businesses
in your community. Um there's a lot of
doom and gloom on the internet, uh on
some of the legacy media outlets as well
that there's no jobs, AI's taking all
the jobs. That may be true in corporate
America. It's completely false on Main
Street. Uh 32% of current owners have
openings today. That's up two points
from last month. Um and so there's a lot
of optimism on Main Street. We need
smart people there. The number one
problem is not actually the cost of
labor, it's the quality of labor. And so
to the degree that we can get smart
people uh uh interning and and doing
apprenticeships, I would say that's
thing one. Once you've identified the
type of industry or job that you're
interested in, then I would think long
and hard over whether a four-year degree
is the best way to get there or if you'd
save yourself a a lot of money and go
into some some of these really great uh
trade schools that we have in our
country.
&gt;&gt; And I really like what you said there
because I think it's a point that's true
that everyone ignores. It's not about
it's not about that that there's not
jobs that there's not actually enough
quality people willing to willing to
work with the right culture or the right
diligence at these jobs. 32% of these
businesses you're seeing 32% of millions
of businesses have a job opening but
they can't find someone who's willing to
come and just work hard and show up on
time and is you know I think we need
cultures that are functional or people
are willing to work you know.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. And we need incentives that
that to drive that from the educational
uh system.
&gt;&gt; Well, if you tell someone they're a
victim and that they're not going to be
successful and they should just like go
find a way to get free house and and
whatever victim wages and that then that
sucks. But if you tell someone you have
to figure it out and be diligent and if
you're diligent, you're going to succeed
in this country, then they're going to
go work.
&gt;&gt; There is a difference between trauma and
life. And I think a lot of people say
they've gone through a lot of trauma and
they've just gone through life.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Stop being a wimp basically.
&gt;&gt; Exactly.
&gt;&gt; I like I like that theme. We got there
is some certain like like it's courage,
but it's like grit and it's just it's
like being not that it's a gender
specific, but it's being a man, right?
&gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Like stand up and just do it.
Just figure it out.
&gt;&gt; Just get done. Uh it's how the
country is built. It's how all these
owners build their businesses as well.
&gt;&gt; I love it. Yeah. I was I was we we have
the founders of cognition who who are
also just on recently and these are guys
are like building some of like the
coolest AI tools and making it really
easy to build things. Do you see small
business owners like actually building
things in AI themselves with with you
know with cloud or cognition or anything
else like are they actually creating
tools for themselves?
&gt;&gt; I would say at the owner level not so
often. Um one pattern that we have seen
to kind of get back to young folks
entering is that we're very pro reviving
the American dream. That's our mission.
We're pro small business ownership. You
don't have to buy a business for us to
be happy and for us to to root for you.
Uh if you decide that buying is not the
right path and you want to start one,
we'll we'll be there rooting you along.
And we've seen a lot of folks leave
Silicon Valley and start new small
businesses. So start from scratch using
AI and absolutely clean up shop in their
towns. I know one guy who uh was was
previously working at Bird. He then uh
left. He has started a pool cleaning
business. He uh cleans pools throughout
Los Angeles. He has some of the coolest
AI automations. Um, one of them, just to
kind of tease, is he has this AI that
joins all the local neighborhood
Facebook groups and, uh, posts a post
from him that says, "Hi, me and my wife
just moved into your neighborhood. I'm a
local small business owner. If you have
a pool, I would love to clean it. Uh,
thank you for allowing me to to make
ends meet and and build a happy family
here." So, so there's that type of like
hacking.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I love it. You just got to
see what message works and do your best.
And it is interesting because a lot of
the AI outreach right now that works
might get to be too spammy and too much
pretty soon.
&gt;&gt; There's an ARB right now that you
capture.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Right now if you're willing to be
to be a yourself, right? You just
Exactly. There's an ARB. So So let's
let's step back. American operator. Take
us through the challenges when a
business owner's preparing to sell their
business. Like a lot of people end up
shutting things down. They probably
could have made some real money out
because they didn't couldn't figure out
what to do. So like like why is it hard
to sell? Yeah, I would say it starts by
the reality that it's typically the
first and last time that you're selling
a business and there it is very opaque
uh how the process works.
&gt;&gt; It's scary is a lot of your life is in
this thing and you're trying to sell it
and you probably care a lot about the
community how it serves them too.
&gt;&gt; You care a ton about the community. You
know, one one of the kind of smartass
quips that we hear often from retiring
owners is part of the reason I've been
married for 40 years is I work 40 hours
a week. They're very they're very afraid
of what comes next as well. This has
been their identity. they've been Joe
the plumber or Joe the auto shop guy
when they you know pass the torch or
shut down the business. Who am I? And so
one of the things that we've been able
to do there uh is advisor program that
that is really credit to you to coming
up with where we take a lot of current
and retired owners who have really
succeeded in their industries and we
redeploy them at American operator
helping us pick the best businesses to
work with pick the best operators to
back and then ultimately guide those
businesses on. Um so I'll say kind of
getting
&gt;&gt; so stopping there for a second. You
actually take these people who've done
this their whole lives, they're ready to
sell it, but then you kind of give them
something else to do to advise and
mentor others because maybe they still
want to work some, they just don't want
to run this business anymore, but now
all of a sudden they're working with
you. They're actually they get can get
upside and things are help.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. So, so they co-invest
into the different uh small businesses
that we partner with. We also cut them
in a little bit of a sweetener on the
equity side so they have skin in the
game. We believe that's really
important. You should get the upside and
the downside of your advice. If you're
giving bad advice, you shouldn't
benefit. Uh and and so we think that's
important for creating an ownership
mentality with them. Um and they have
worked wonders. Uh collectively they've
generated over $1.8 billion in revenue
for the small businesses that they've
owned. They've employed over a thousand
employees at the businesses that they've
owned. They help our team see around
corners. I always tell our team, never
kid yourself that you're an expert in
these different industries. That is not
our job. Our job is to effectuate this
massive wealth transfer to make sure
that small businesses are around for the
for the generations to come. But you
want the person who's been doing it for
30 years to to be actually showing
people what to do.
&gt;&gt; 100%. Yep. And and they understand, hey,
what are these soft qualities in an
operator that would allow them to win to
kind of go back and and pick on Anthony
when we were selecting the best operator
for Greenway? Uh we had Matt Carlson,
the adviser there, on to help us figure
out, okay, we have these three uh in the
short list. Who's the one we should
back? And he gave us a a thought
experiment that is actually quite
helpful, which is let's say that you
were uh you were in New York. your wife
was home alone at your house and the
painting contractor had to come over.
Who would you feel comfortable with this
painting contractor being home alone uh
in your house in your states away? He's
like, that's the type of interviewing
that you need to do. Do they seem high
character? What are instances of them
having to make really tough decisions uh
around ethics and values?
&gt;&gt; How attractive are they?
&gt;&gt; Exactly. How attractive they are as
well? I don't know if that's a good or
bad.
&gt;&gt; Wait a second here. Uh and and so they
they really help us both select the the
business and the operator and then
they've worked wonders postc close uh
everything from giving really great
advice to opening their networks to help
drive more sales, connect with
discounted vendors, so on and so forth
&gt;&gt; and and uh and take us through a little
more of some of these details. So for
example, why is it challenging for an
autoshop manager to take over a
business? Like it just it seems to me
like oh it just be straightforward like
are there certain like nuances to these
things? There are the kind of the the
way that I look at it is if an
individual wants to take over a
business, they better be a unicorn. Um,
and they and they better be a unicorn
for for three reasons. They need to sit
in this vin diagram of one, they know
how to buy a business. Very few of the
people, the men and women who have
worked on Main Street are leverage
finance experts.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. They're not they're not working on
wall street doing multiple. This is
their first time probably in their life
ever.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And and it's non-trivial. You
need to get it right. You need to have
the diligence. You need to understand
the deal structure. And so that's thing
number one.
&gt;&gt; And you you help a lot of people.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Uh the second thing is they
need to be able to have access to
capital. So the work that Kelly and the
SBA are doing is phenomenal, but you
just can't go to the SBA with no money
down. You need to have capital.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You can't just get the whole
money. It's kind like buying a house.
You they can give you a great loan, but
you still have to have
&gt;&gt; you have to down payment, right? And we
have an affordability crisis in the US.
If you've been working as a general
manager at an auto shop, say, and you've
been making 120K, you have two kids. You
have a family of four total. It's
expensive. You don't have much for
savings. And then the third piece is you
have to have really great industry
expertise. You have to understand uh the
job that you're taking on as an owner.
And so what we do as American Operator
is we come and we say, "Hey, allow us to
handle the transaction piece. We're
going to underwrite the deal. We're
going to come up with all the financing.
We're going to find a really great
adviser to help vet the business and vet
you and serve as an ongoing uh mentor.
And that allows us to really focus on
the people who are great operators. And
that's why it's called American
Operator. This is not American leverage
finance, bro. We really care about folks
who understand how to run these
businesses and how to lead them. Um, and
allows us to back the people who are the
best to lead and not the best to buy.
&gt;&gt; Do you want them to at least put in
something usually to have some skin in
the game? Like it sounds like feel like
that's good if they get even if they
haven't saved much, they should probably
save something.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. So, there's always a a
co-invest uh requirement. We make it uh
material to them. It may not be material
to to the larger deal. It's on on the
smallest end. Normally, it's around
$15,000. It scales up based on the size
of the business and kind of the
background of the operator. And then the
second thing is we make them personally
guarantee the debt. Um we don't do that
for the collateral coverage. Often times
these people don't have a lot of assets,
but we want to have a filter for someone
who is going to take this as seriously
as we are.
&gt;&gt; This is their thing. They they are
focused on it. They're going to fight
for
&gt;&gt; 100%. And and as part of that uh
personal guarantee, you need to have a
conversation with your spouse. It has to
be a family all-in uh decision. This is
not something to take lightly.
&gt;&gt; Of course. This is allin for your guys'
lives. This is going to be the way
you're going to build millions of wealth
and build build a legacy.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. explain how operate to own
works. I I understand how these
financial structures work. I do hundreds
hundreds of deals. Like for for people
who haven't heard this before. So
they're coming in, they might have only
put $15,000 down, but after doing well
for several years, they might own a
majority of the business. How how does
that work?
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. So, uh at close, the
operators that we back, they will be
able to draw a base salary. They'll have
health care benefits, and they'll have a
10% ownership stake in the business.
Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um to to kind of use uh simple numbers,
let's say it's a $2 million business.
that 10% ownership stake uh is worth
200K assuming no no debt on the
business.
&gt;&gt; Over time, we increase the amount of
ownership they get based on the
profitability of the business. And so
each year we're giving them anywhere
between 20 to 50% of the profits. We're
giving them that amount in additional
equity.
&gt;&gt; And they get that and the way that this
works is that's effectively tax-free,
right? Exactly. Because because you're
building equity and you're not taking
the cash out, which is which is a really
important part of how our tax system
works is that if you're not taking money
out, you can actually build equity over
time without without paying taxes.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. So, it's taxable if they choose
to take a distribution from the
business, but we're allowing them to
really acrue uh equity in the in the
underlying business.
&gt;&gt; It's kind of core to the American system
that you can't acrue things in illquid
way. That's how we all build wealth.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Um and so as they build up that
ownership, it typically takes around 5
to seven years to become majority owner.
Um, using that formula, it accelerates
once we've repaid the debt on the
business. So, maybe you're just getting
another two to five points of equity for
the first handful of years. Once we've
used the profits from the business to
repay the debt, then you're getting five
to 10 points of equity a year until you
hit 70%.
&gt;&gt; Let's stop and say that. So, basically,
in order to buy the business, you had to
take some debt. So, the debt has to be
repaid first. You're building your your
ownership more slowly while that's being
repaid. Once the debt's being repaid,
all of there's like tons of extra money
available now to like help you build a
lot more ownership. And that's really
great because now by the time they take
over this business as a majority owner,
uh the debt's gone as well.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And the training wheels have
kind of come off. Uh the debt has been
repaid. They now own a majority of the
business. And hopefully if we've done
our jobs right and they've done their
jobs right, it's no longer a $2 million
business. It's a three and a half or$4
million business
&gt;&gt; or or even bigger if they're crushing
it. And and how do you make money from
that? So So you're like what part of the
stack are you and how's American
Operator making money?
&gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah. So at Close, we own 90% of
the business. um any year that we make
distributions from the business and
that's a joint decision between us the
operator and the adviser uh we get our
prata share of the business and so
oftentimes we're buying these at you
know anywhere from four to five times
multiples um and so there's a lot of
cash flow that's getting spit off from
those businesses at the beginning a good
amount of it needs to go to to repay the
debt uh but then you really have this
kind of cash flowing machine um and then
it's up to us as as a team us being the
operative adviser in American operative
okay we generated you a million dollars
in profit. What amount of that do we
want to reinvest in growth? What amount
of that do we want to make distributions
to to the shareholders?
&gt;&gt; I love it. And so as they're buying more
equity out of that profit, you're
getting some of your earnings. And so so
you can end up getting a great IRRa for
yourself, too.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. And as they go up to 70%, we
then hold on to 30%. And we're really
looking to be long-term partners and and
and owners and on Main Street business.
&gt;&gt; So American Operator, as you scale this
up, is going to hopefully own 30% of a
lot of these great businesses. hopefully
thousands of them or tensions tens of
thousands around the economy. That's a
great asset. What do you do? Do you take
that public? We can't talk about that. I
don't know.
&gt;&gt; That that's the goal. We we want to have
a world where everyday Americans can
have a stake in in Main Street. Uh today
they can't. These are the businesses
that they patron, that they go to, uh
that they work for. Uh they they should
have the ability to have a stake in the
American dream there. We think that's
important. It's also very helpful for
us. Um these uh individuals, they're the
ones who know the small business owners.
They know the best operators. They can
be really great referral partners and
allies for us. And so our goal is uh as
soon as we can um create a mechanism to
to get into the public market.
&gt;&gt; I love it. So this I mean this this is
this is great investing and right now
these businesses are trading. They're
much cheaper effectively to buy. They're
trading at small multiples of cash. Like
a typical public company uh could even
trade at 30 or 40 or 50 times earnings.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Uh
&gt;&gt; or or your beloved Palunteer even higher
than that.
&gt;&gt; You know, it's a great company. You get
you get a premium for being really cool.
So, I don't know. I don't know what to
tell you, but um it's mostly carb, not
me. Of course, I'm not running anymore
and all and Sham and everyone else
there. No, but uh No, it's funny because
these things trade
&gt;&gt; uh crazy multiples for for the public
markets and you're and you're buying
stuff off three, four, five, six times.
So, so, so, so it seems like it's going
to be a really interesting thing to
invest in for people to have exposure to
a bunch of these.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And it'll become more and more
valuable um as you have this kind of
flight from from software in certain
areas. You have this really interesting
AI hedge. this is the last frontier. Uh
but at the same time, you have this
opportunity like okay, can we go and
accelerate growth here definitely going
to help these things for sure make it
much easier to run the business. It's
it's it's really it's really interesting
too because as a private equity play
it'd be tougher because you wouldn't
have like the local owner anymore, local
community person. Now you have a local
owner who knows their owner community
who's all in on this for their family.
But then you have that times 10,000 that
that's pretty compelling.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Yes. And to the degree that we
can make sure as many of these live on
in the hands of folks who live in those
communities who get to bed thinking
about the business, wake up thinking
about the business, it'll be better for
their customers, better for the
employees, and better for those towns.
&gt;&gt; I love this. Will we start this podcast
American optimist to push back on
cynicism and pessimism we see in our
country? What's the best case for an
optimistic future for Main Street
America?
&gt;&gt; I would say just go out on Main Street.
I mean, it's optimist uh from from day
one. If if you look out there, uh the
past 25 years, two out of every three
jobs have been created from small
businesses. I believe that in the next
decade they'll rise to four out of five,
five out of six jobs. Uh it's a huge job
creation engine. You have a bunch of uh
men and women who aren't in the
limelight. They're they're not going on
Forbes 30 under 30 and then getting
thrown in prison. Uh but they are
creating wealth uh for themselves.
They're creating their version of the
American dream. Uh they're great role
models for for the young folks in this
country. Um and I would say that if you
kind of take the the long view here, the
biggest thing that we need to do is just
get the word out so we get more folks
entering Main Street, entering small
businesses. Uh, and the rest will take
care of itself.
&gt;&gt; I love it. If there are folks listening
who are interested in selling or buying
a business, what should they do?
&gt;&gt; Uh, go to americananoperator.com. Our
team would love to to meet you, hear
your story, and see how we can work
together.
&gt;&gt; americanoperator.com. Thank you, Will.
Thanks for joining us.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having me, Joe.
