原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXNFdafIICU

None of you are here to see me, but I do
have to tell you where you are. Uh,
welcome to South Park Commons, New York.
Uh, put your hand up in the audience if
you are part of South Park Commons.
After the event, if you want to learn
more, you should talk to them. Uh, quick
office with an amazing team, Suzanne and
Aryan. We've been around in the Bay for
10 years, but in New York for a couple
now. We're basically a space for deep
technical exploration. So we try to
bring together the smartest people who
want to solve the hardest problems. We
want to bring them into our space. We
don't take any equity. We don't charge.
We just want really smart people to come
together. And hopefully we get to invest
in a bunch of you and accelerate
building businesses that might one day
look like these guys. So, if you want to
learn more about SPC, if you're curious
about what starting something or doing
full-time technical exploration could
look like, uh, I'm always around. And
with that said, thank you so much all of
you for coming and I'll hand it over to
Eric to kick it off.
&gt;&gt; Hey, I'm Eric Newcomer. I'm the author
of the newsletter Newcomer and host the
Cubal Valley AI Summit. Thrilled, man.
This is quite the crowd and people are
eager. So, I will not talk too long. At
some point, I'll open it up. We
definitely want people to engage. I
think these are three companies truly at
the cutting edge. So excited um to get
right into it. Do you just want to
introduce yourselves and sort of give
the brief what your company does?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, sure. Hi everyone. Good to be
here. Uh I'm Joseph Krauss. I'm one of
the co-founders and the CEO of Radical
AI. And what we do is build AGI for
science. So we are discovering new
materials with an AI scientist in a
fully robotic lab that can actually
impact some of the most important
industries in the world. So that's us.
Uh, PIM, general intuition. Uh, we build
general agents for environments that
require deep spatial temporal reasoning.
So, think things like robots or moving
around in simulation.
&gt;&gt; I'm Rob Cochran. I'm a co-founder and
CEO of Fond Robotics. Uh, we're building
safe, reliable, and fun robots for
everyone. Uh, our first product, Sprout,
uh, is a 3 and 1/2t tall humanoid robot
that we've made available as a
development platform.
&gt;&gt; All right, we're get right into it. Rob,
Amazon has bought your company. Why? Why
did you sell it? Tell us the story.
&gt;&gt; Uh yeah, so this news came out last
week, obviously much longer in the
works. Uh I worked at Amazon previously
uh several years ago uh in AWS and had a
bunch of relationships there since since
starting the company. Uh you know, in in
many conversations uh discussed
partnership and and different things we
could do together. I think ultimately
they really liked our vision for how
robots would one day work and live
alongside people uh and wanted to
support that in a in a big way and the
chance to get to keep doing this and
doing it in New York and and with a lot
of support from a great partner uh felt
very excited.
&gt;&gt; And so you're going to lean in on the
form factor you're doing which is sort
of a cute research robot like give us
the articulation of why we're not going
straight to humanoid robotics.
So though we have started with a two arm
two-leg uh robot named Sprout um
&gt;&gt; cuteness is part of the
&gt;&gt; cuteness approachability something
engaging something people actually want
to be around I think the reality of
robotics today is that they don't work
perfectly uh and so one it has to be
safe so if you have a 150 or 200 pound
machine that falls over you or or falls
into a child that's that's it so you
obviously can't deploy that kind of risk
into real environments and I think there
are still many innovations required to
make robots work very effectively uh in
homes and so having a platform that is
experimentally deployable uh in a lot of
situations is very useful uh and then
making it something that people want to
be around so they're a little forgiving
of some of its its faults.
&gt;&gt; All right, Pim, you're first of all you
you come out of like the video game
world, right? Uh is it you were running
the largest Runescape server at 14?
That's a correct fact. I think I do all
my prep with Claude now, which is
dangerous, but it's so good. Um, that's
accurate. All right. And then basically,
you had a company that had t access to
tons of video game clips. You go out,
you start pitching them to foundation
models and you figure out actually uh
this is data is pretty valuable. Like
maybe I should build my own company off
of it. Is that a fair origin story or
what what is the sort of
&gt;&gt; Yeah. What was the idea behind general
intuition?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So uh I was too young when the
mobile sort of revolution happened and I
think I um
&gt;&gt; I come from consumer so I I I looked a
lot at like well what do platform shift
like usually the biggest companies are
built right after these thing called
platform shifts happen which is when
there is like a large like unsettling of
the status quo and like how things are
built or how networks come together and
in video games discord was a large
platform shift and so Metal came on top
of Discord largely um Metal is one of
the largest video game recording
applications. Um, and uh,
and so I I was too young for mobile.
What I saw when the LMS happened, I was
already fairly obsessed with with like
reading the papers and trying to
understand how this works. Um, and then
um, yeah decided to go allin uh, and
then indeed we um, you know, we just
started looking at how the data could be
useful. Like originally we had some
ideas of like oh can you take factorial
clips and use them to create like of
like the best players and can you
evaluate like language models on how
they would do certain things and then we
actually realized that the data set was
so general that games are actually a
very good representation of like digital
information i.e. text, which like
robotics lacks, right, in the physical
world. And then in the physical world,
you have spatial and temporal dynamics
where like um things unfold over longer
periods of time, which text and lacks
and pictures lack. And um and so we sort
of realized that we could probably we
had so much of this data that we could
pre-train entire foundation models on it
and we've been able to do that very
well.
&gt;&gt; You're you're building agents for real
world, the real world. Um
&gt;&gt; but the world models are built from
video games. Is that right? like what
what is your view on whether like the
successful world models because that's
such a buzzy term right now will be
based on like mapping this room or based
on video games just because there's so
much volume. Obviously we saw similar
debates with self-driving cars.
&gt;&gt; Uh yeah the the the phrase is so broad
now it's very uh difficult to give like
a succinct answer but I'll try. So um
what sort of world models is
actions and frames right? So you have an
action and then you have an observation
i.e. the next frame and then the next
frame can be generated off the action.
That's kind of the original term I guess
um or the next state. I'm using the word
frame in this case because it's more
familiar but the next state of the
environment is like generated off the
action that you take. Um that sequencing
of data just doesn't exist in the real
world in a um and what's important is a
timely accurate way. So if you want your
models to properly
react to the actions you take, then you
want to be able to separate out the
action from the state, right? So the
action from the world. As humans, we
don't have that. Um, and if you want to
label it off video, uh, even the best
humans, right, they will not get that
precise within like, you know, a 100
millisecond range. If you want your
models on very little data to learn
these causal relationships, then you
actually want that to be ground truth.
therefore actually getting it from video
games in a software
&gt;&gt; is there's a faster
&gt;&gt; you actually control how the frames and
the actions are being put together and
therefore we just found that you could
pre-train on that and then do a lot more
afterwards. So um we found this to be in
our opinion like a great way of doing
it. Now there's other companies that
will try other ways. We'll see how it
plays out. All right, Joseph. Radical
AI. You're in some ways it is what
people think with the frontier like fine
new materials and you have what Rathon
is like a big backer. So this is like
outside the serious uh companies uh
thinking about this like yeah what what
material how what's your approach I
guess to finding materials and then like
what is materials even the word you use
and like what is then the first material
you're hoping to stumble upon? Yeah, I
think I think it's kind of worth maybe
taking one step back, right? And I think
the thing I always like to talk about,
and you might have heard me say this
before, is what do materials mean? Why
are they important? Why are we working
on this technology? And the reason is if
you really paint the picture, right, and
you think about how many industries are
impacted by material science,
automotive, aerospace, manufacturing and
defense, climate, energy,
semiconductors, electronics, most
important industries in the world, all
direct result from materials R&amp;D. But
when we were paying attention and we can
get into like why we started the
company, it just takes way too long, way
too much money, and way too much
fragmentation to solve them. And so the
big thesis behind the company is this
connection between an AI scientist who
has a ridiculous level of intelligence,
I mean better than a PhD scientist would
have today and we're a couple months
into training it on real on kind of real
experimental data. and then a fully
robotic self-driving lab. And that means
that we can actually run experiments,
kind of synthesize materials,
characterize materials, and then test
materials in high throughput. And we
capture all that information. None of
that information is captured today. And
so you build this data set that does not
exist in the experimental lens, has
really important information. It's the
actual real world impact of materials
and the way they perform and then can
actually be used to kind of push those
materials to end applications. So,
Rathon's an investor, Nvidia is an
investor, any is an investor on the
energy side. We do a lot of work in
nuclear fusion and so you kind of have
all these companies.
&gt;&gt; Materials is huge all the world like
where do you start? You know, it's like
anything could be useful.
&gt;&gt; That's right. And so where we thought
about was like where is an area that
really has so much opportunity to show
why the techn is relevant and in the
space that we work which is called
structural metals there are 10 to the 40
different potential combinations. So I
want you to envision this like that's
like a hundred trillion earths of
different potential combinations that
you can go synthesize. That'll take like
7 million years if any of you try to do
that. That's where AI is really good at
weeding and self-driving labs are really
good at making. And so that's why we
kind of chose that area. Aerospace,
defense, and energy are the areas that
we're working in today. And then kind of
moving into semiconductors as a future
area which we can talk about.
&gt;&gt; Is there like a very specific sort of
&gt;&gt; There is it's called a high entropy
alloy. So it's a material that has five
to seven different elements in it and
they're all about equatomic and it has
really high entropy in the system. And
so what it can do is have incredible
properties at crazy conditions. You're
like flying through space at Mach 10. It
gets ridiculously hot. ridiculous
pressure and it's really oxidative. It's
really corrosive. These materials
withstand all of that. So they don't
feel the effects of those conditions. So
they're pretty exotic in that way.
&gt;&gt; How much this is sort of for everybody.
I want to understand like how much was
chatbt and what's happened with like the
language models like an innovate like a
inflection point for what you're trying
to do? I know some people came after
that and everything, but like was that a
core technology to what you're doing or
do you see the actual like technological
leap as being something totally
different?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, for robotics, it's
definitely a a huge innovation and step
forward for planning. So, if you think
about, hey, robot, grab me a snack from
the fridge. The ability to plan that
task out flexibly and accommodate, you
know, oh, it gets to the fridge and the
drink that your favorite drink's not
there, so can it pick another one? that
sort of planning and replplanning was
just not possible through you know
formerly possible structured planning
routines. But for us, I mean, there have
been many innovations. The availability
of of embedded GPUs that can run on
device in real time, uh, actuators that
you can buy off the shelf to, you know,
animate the robot's body. And then for
us uh and my partner spent spent time at
DeepMind doing work in simulation and
and the availability of physically
realistic simulated environments where
you could train robot behaviors and have
those behaviors actually reflected on a
real robot was not possible and not a
way that people developed robot
behaviors you know five or 10 years ago
and is now quite possible and with
accelerated compute can be done at scale
and that's I think driven a real uh set
of innovations more from a robotic
control perspective and is AI I but it's
not language models.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You know, obviously you're it's
sort of the next generation of language
models. How would you draw sort of the
connection between what you're doing and
the work that's happening in language
models today?
&gt;&gt; Um I think that the last point that he
made was was quite interesting on the
simulation piece. I want to just explain
that a little bit better because I think
it will make everybody understand why
it's important. Um
so previously you would have to uh hire
an engineer who goes and codes up an a
simulated environment and then um
uh and then you do it in engine that
engine is like probably roughly you know
modeling Newtonian physics or something
and you don't know precisely how much
because it made some trade-offs in some
places right to to go faster. Um, so
then you need to check how far off they
are. And then now what you can just do
is you can just create verifiers where
you just look at like the outputs of the
engine and you can just have an LM go
crazy put together a bunch of
environments for example and just pick
ones that that work well. Um, and so I
think it's I think the role of the
engineer in a lot of parts of the stack
has moved from the person actually
controlling the number of output to just
verifying the output and then using that
as a way of so it's it's a it's a
massive force multiplier that the size
of the teams that you need to do what
you needed to do before is massively
less. I think LLMs are in many ways just
a way of like the simplest way that I
describe it is is all the time that
collectively as humans we spend like
searching the internet reading things
like Stack Overflow and then typing it
all that's just compressed right into
like a very easy um sequence and so now
uh yeah I think it's it's it's many
exponentials of speed ups and all like
it's funny the work that we all do which
has in common which is that we saw what
happened in tax I think and so you see
um And also like looking at the scaling
laws and all the techniques techni the
techniques being developed for like
pre-scaling like or pre-training all
these things are all extremely important
right they're all quite general um a lot
of the models a lot of model
architectures a lot of the pieces you
also can directly transfer um and so uh
yeah all super fundamental work I
actually think people don't realize how
similar it all is under the hood um
there and yeah
&gt;&gt; yeah I agree with that last point
entirely I think there's there's so much
similarity that comes over and even
things like you learn about training,
right? Like, you know, did did Chacht
learn the English language? Well, no, of
course not. It learned how to represent
that and then and then use that when it
produces text. And I think we think
about similar things in material science
that we learn from the language field.
We we also use it and I think that's
important. Um, you know, we have this
this like head honcho who runs our
science. He's like he's like the guy in
charge. He's like the he's like the new
PI of the lab. And that's an LLM. Like
it's from it's from Open Air and Claude.
We fine-tune that to understand
materials. But he doesn't, you know,
that that agent,
&gt;&gt; do you give him a name internally?
&gt;&gt; He's rad. So this um he, you know, that
that agent just calls the tools that he
needs and and it's really good at
understanding like, okay, I want to go
into simulation. I'm going to run
quantum chemistry. I want to run labs.
I'm gonna talk to my APIs in my lab.
&gt;&gt; Is he like the type of PI where it's
like, I don't need to explain this to
you. Just trust me, I I'm I'm an expert
in this or like how much did your humans
come around and like figure out why it
says go this way.
&gt;&gt; So we do that a lot today and it's
really important to label the data for
like a common industry phrase meaning
how does it know if an experiment is
good or bad. Well a human scientist
tells the agent that. So we'll come in
it, you know, the agent will analyze the
result from the lab. Our human scientist
will analyze the result from the lab.
then we'll compare them and you build
this training data set of okay I
understand what the human scientist is
going for so the humans are definitely
in the loop today and it's really
important but there's a bunch of other
kind of technologies that we custom
build diffusion models are a perfect
example there's not a real good
diffusion model model and materials
today we have to build that from scratch
we would never build an LLM from scratch
so I think they're important in the
learnings and they're important in how
we can use them in in in our workflows
today
&gt;&gt; in in five years like what's the world
look like? That's that's the fundamental
question like you know robotics like I
mean there's the sort of like will
humanoids happen that quickly or not
like what both on the sort of bullish
end where you're bearish like how is the
world sort of more different than we
expect in five years where do you think
oh I don't know I don't know if we're
going to make a leap like in in your
domains or any any area that would be
interesting to people building here
&gt;&gt; yeah I mean from a from a robotics
perspective I think there's definitely
still a lot of work to be done to make
robots very effective across the broad
set of tasks that we'd like to
eventually have them do in the home.
That's part of why we started with the
development platform. So AI labs in
academia and and corporate research labs
are able to kind of build and extend and
develop some of these capabilities. I
think some of what we're hearing here is
that, you know, there's a lot that still
needs to be done to to ground uh robotic
simulation in physical reality and to be
able to to make forward projections that
are are realistic and and understand
physics of the world. Does that so you
don't believe like oh we're going to
have AI is going to hit some sort of
self-improvement point and so that the
rate of development is going to change
so much of over the next five years that
we just
&gt;&gt; I think we are in a very steep path
where we're figuring out a lot very
quickly and we should see robots very
broadly you know in the world and we're
building and shipping robots today um
you know but I think we are on a very
steep path where innovations still need
to happen with people
&gt;&gt; one specific thing that maybe in five
years you'd you'd hope to
or Pim, you can be our futurist.
I'm going to steal this. So this I'm I'm
stealing this from Andre Kaparthi. He
said it in a talk privately once and I
really liked what he said. Um there's
broadly three stages. Bits to bits. So
anything digital to anything digital
where there's lots of information
available. Um bits to atoms and atoms to
bits as like an interface layer and then
atoms to atoms. Those are like the three
stages of like quote unquote AGI. And
they all have very very different um
problems. Uh bits to bits is in
hyperdrive like we're flying. There's no
no limits in sight. Um bits to atoms and
atoms to bits is largely constrained by
measurement systems that we still need
to build. And I think it's a very
interesting space right like a lot of
the work you're doing I'm sure is is you
could see as as as as starting as bits
atoms atoms bits and ending up in atoms
to atoms, right? Um and then eventually
Adam's Adams where you have completely
endto-end physical systems modifying um
other physical systems and then and
really I just look at it as a number of
combinations of things that are possible
in the world and the the pace at which
we produce them just goes up so far so
fast that um you just start seeing a lot
more things a lot quicker and and I
think so the same thing you're seeing
with like web apps being developed on
the internet like lot all your friends
can develop apps now you start seeing
that with lots of different things and I
think that's really just I think that's
how it plays out.
&gt;&gt; What this this is sort of a Zag, but I
just want to understand like who are
your first customers or like what do
your customers look like?
&gt;&gt; Um so at the moment uh our customers are
any robot that can be controlled using a
game controller. So our what we do right
is we build world models and also um
policies or agents that then are trained
inside and evaluated inside the world
models. And what world models are great
at is sort of simulating stochcastic
environments that would be very hard to
simulate in like traditional physics
engines or like you'd have to do a lot
of like manual coding, right? And so um
uh you evaluate a robot not by how it
does when you walk down a straight or
when it drives down a straight road, but
you you evaluate it by how it does when
something unexpected happens, right? And
so that's why you need lots of
stoasticity and unexpected things to
happen. That's why world models are
great. Um, so our our customers are
typically um robotics customers. So you
can control using game controllers
because a lot of the data obviously is
is gaming actions, right? And that
that's the general sol which is really
cool. So you don't need to solve for
like precise motor torque um
predictions. You can just solve at the
input of the game controller which every
robotics company already ships with. Um,
and then I think on the humanoid
comment, I think I'm less optimistic on
on humanoids, not not uh home robots and
and like actual. So I I I view AI as
largely also an interface problem. Uh,
which is funny as like a person who
built models, like I think it's largely
an interface problem. Um, like we didn't
start paying attention until CHBT, which
was largely just an interface, right?
Um, and so same thing with like home
robots like it's pro it's it's it's you
know if I go off first principles and I
think humanoids are interesting but
largely the reason why humanoids were
picked as an embodiment were because the
assumption was around that that's the
only place where we had large scale data
because of humans recording themselves
from like the egocentric point of view.
Um and also I think at the end of the
day you don't want like heavy bulky many
thousands of dollar things that require
energy if you don't need them. Um, in
many cases, if you can control the
devices themselves, it's probably a
better solve. Um, uh, and so I think in
a home they'll be they'll be big because
I think there's lots of like very random
tasks. I think in factories they'll be
big, but like I don't think it's like
the everywhere thing that we're
imagining. I think we because I think
they're just hard to manufacture. I
think you'll see I think you'll start
seeing specialized systems that people
buy much sooner than you see like very
general remote robots as like the
general thing everywhere for radical AI
to go back to this like bits to bits
bits to atoms like framework yeah which
piece is the hardest for you right now
and like what where are you in that
process this still sort of like bits to
bits idea generation or
&gt;&gt; yeah
I like the framing we call it in in our
industry is kind of called concurrent
engineering. And so like a lot of the
systems that we build today, whether
that's you know a fighter jet all the
way through to like maybe a humanoid um
those technologies do not design
particularly the materials but other
systems in concert with them. So like in
aerospace when we design a new turbine
or we design a new plane we go back 30
40 50 60 sometimes a hundred years to
pull the material to use. And that's
true in the automotive industry today. A
lot of the cars we're driving 1907 1910
like Ford Model T alloys. It's crazy to
think about like how are we at AGI and
we're using 1910 alloys. So kind of this
like you know Adams bits to atoms or
bits to bits like we view this world
where if you're designing a new plane or
a new car like you should be designing
the material at the same time that
directly meets the requirements and
constraints that your product is going
to have. We're close to that. We we
can't do that at scale yet, but you
know, our scientist can talk to our a AI
agent. I want a material that does this.
That agent will go run a bunch of
calculations, figure out what example
that is, send it to the lab, and then
make it. So, you're you're really going
from voice to end material. And it's not
perfect yet. We're still building that
technology. But man, if you get that at
a loop where anyone can do that on our
platform, like again, now every
automotive, every aerospace, every
mechanical engineer in the world has
materials customization available to
them.
&gt;&gt; And how do you monetize that?
&gt;&gt; So for us, our end goal is to actually
sell materials. So what we do is we're
capturing the largest experimental data
set in the world because we're running
experiments. And when you have that data
set, we have a deep belief that that is
the fundamental underlying technology
you need to make these models relevant.
When you can put this whole fly, we call
it the flywheel, the flywheel together,
you can start to target thing like our
tap superconductors for example or high
entropy ceramics or new battery cathode
materials. We want to sell those
materials to the industries of the
future. We always like to say, you know,
we don't focus on optimization based
technologies. There's a bunch of
companies that optimize existing
products. We focus on enabling based
technologies, technologies that are not
here today and will be here tomorrow
because of radical AI
&gt;&gt; that you will then own the patent and
&gt;&gt; so we'll like make them we'll we'll
discover the material test it and then
actually manufacture and scale it.
&gt;&gt; Let's um you know we have a lot of
people here who maybe some of them want
to know what company they should start
what space they should go into. Do you
want to sort of like the company you
wish you you could be doing besides this
or just areas where you think there's
opportunity obviously Rob I mean you
were in sort of the control labs like
the human sort of machine interface is
that an area you're bullish on or just
spaces you think people should be
running at right now?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So our previous company uh control
labs which which we sold to Meta uh was
a wearable neuroch device. So you wear
it around your wrist, picked up a signal
known as electromyiography,
interface to a computer and let you have
very high bandwidth control over a
computer interface, whether that be VR
AR glasses, it is now part of the AR
glasses that that Meta ships and I think
in general these I mean there are kind
of two trajectories. one towards highly
immersive technologies and then maybe
more towards embodied technologies and
I've worked at on either side of that
but I think both of those it's core to
think about the user and the person and
I think a lot of times what gets lost in
in robotics and with with kind of
immersive technologies is
&gt;&gt; sorry I actually don't know which is
which which one is sort of in the brain
&gt;&gt; so what I would say is you know with
with AR we are projecting ourselves into
a digital space and with robotics we are
pulling and robotics are embodying the
AI itself. So, it's kind of two sides of
the same coin,
&gt;&gt; but in both senses, you're developing
technology to interface with with
people. And there are interface problems
all over the place in terms of making
things that people actually want to
interact with that they can be
optimistic about the the future of of
the role we we play alongside uh AI in
various forms. And I think there's a lot
to be a lot of innovation to be had
there. So just this core like how is the
human interacting with all this like
capacity?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think you see a lot in the
the devices space right now personal
what what a personal AI is going to look
and feel like. Is it going to be a phone
or is it going to be glasses or AirPods
or whatever it is? And I think there's a
lot of a lot of things to happen there.
&gt;&gt; Do you have one you're you're cheering
for?
&gt;&gt; Not yet.
&gt;&gt; Pim space you think people should be
running at?
&gt;&gt; Um yeah. Okay. So a few things. one uh I
I very strong certainly disagree with
the claim that we are at AGI. I think
it's like a
I think we have like better than random
idea generators that get increasingly
better than random at an increasingly
rapid rate. Uh and u and we just so
happen to have so much data on the
internet that
we can construct them to now do useful
things so long as those things are
represented largely in text space,
right? And that is such a like black
hole of where everything is being sucked
in that pe companies are increasingly
exposing everything in text space like
tool calls and things like that because
otherwise you miss out on being part of
that interface, right? Um so I think
that like my my definition of AGI is
like far from being met. Um I um with
that with that said um
so it's incredibly diff like even being
in the space I just find it incredibly
difficult to predict uh what somebody
should do. Um I I think that people
should like people should be spending a
lot of time we're spending a lot of time
thinking about like how do you uh enable
jobs or education in like this new
world. Uh I think it's like I love like
half my children.
&gt;&gt; You're like it's not AGI but everyone
might lose their jobs.
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah. I I I well yeah but how many
jobs people spend on on on
&gt;&gt; Well, your center is very high. Aren't
humans somewhat random and inconsistent
in our reasoning?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I think I think we can match it
with like execution and like um checking
whether it's it's like a correct uh like
I don't know. I think there's there's a
lot a lot a lot of things that humans
are still very special for. Um, but I I
also see the pace of the changes of
technology and I can't say that like I
think that that's going to be like a
forever thing, right? Um, so
yeah, I don't know. I I spent a lot of
time thinking about like uh how like
there's there's really interesting
there's two things consecutively broken.
One, hiring is broken because everything
is LLM generated and [ __ ] And then
second, nobody's getting hired. So like
like this is one thing that I just I run
into every single day is like, okay,
it's just because we're not servicing
the right people. the right ways. Um I I
think
um science is so I I look at and maybe
this is my framework of thinking through
this. There's a lot of fields that were
enabled by text. Science is one of them.
They they sort of came after the
innovation of text itself which is
largely in my head like a way that we
compress real world information, right?
So like we see a bunch of things. We
would describe it. It was a room full of
people. A bunch of people wear different
color shirts, right? Eric Newcomer was
there. We compress all that information
into something that is relatable and
quick to communicate. Um, a lot of
fields came on top of text. We as humans
invented text, right? Math, physics, a
lot of these things. And that's where
you see sort of the completely rapid
innovate like really without limits
because you can build verifiers in text
domain. You can you can do the whole
thing. So I think building things on top
of the rapidly accelerating field that
can be described mostly in text or most
the communication of that field is in
text. something around there is probably
the right way to bet on the LM curve or
or financial model curve. And then to
your point, I think we're going to see
rapid innovation. If you really like
physical systems, like now's your time.
Like go figure out how to manufacture
these things and and be really good at
it because you're going to get a ton of
optimizations in the next year or two.
&gt;&gt; Um you're welcome to respond to AGI if
you want, but we don't need to get lost
in that. uh otherwise yeah just an area
you think people should be right at you
you know you come at this you you came
up through the army right as part of so
you've you've sort of seen some of these
problems from a totally different lens
are there other areas you think people
should be building companies
&gt;&gt; uh to me right now and and and and I
work in hardware but there are three
areas I just think they're most valuable
the world will acrewue and I think there
are subsets of each area that you can go
very deep within there's like AI and
data I think interfaces is like a
perfect example that is a sub area of
that if someone can build holographic
technology like for my agent like I'll
pay you today uh for that for that
product. Um but I think we're seeing
like interfaces being important. I use
an agent every day. It like is a part of
my workflow. The entire company is
required to use Agentic frameworks. Uh
like that's the world we're going to.
And so I think interfaces is a cool
example. I'd love to see it. Compute and
energy to me are are in industries that
have been historically very hard to
disrupt. compute has had a better wave
of disruption like there's been inmemory
compute noramorphic compute like
different different alternatives trying
to get kind of as6based accelerators for
AI I think we've seen a wave there but
we're still on a moors law trajectory of
compute so like what comes after
2nometer well it's 3D heterogeneous
structures there's a lot of unknown
problems like when it comes to that um
from like the compiler down to the
transistor there's a lot of interesting
work to do there energy
energy had a wave, you know, crashed in
a wave because it was early in the
technology probably just wasn't fully
there yet. But now we're coming back to
this place where we're energy
constrained. And so what does the future
of solar look like? Energy storage. Um,
nuclear is certainly interesting. Of
course, we spend time there. I just
think like those areas and I'm sure
there are like a million things you can
think about inside of them. They're
they're going to power the future of the
world.
&gt;&gt; Great. I'm going to open it up soon, so
start thinking. Rob, just, you know,
it's easy to get lost in like the
science of it all, but I mean, you sold
two businesses. I feel like often with
like frontier technology, it's like
build the biggest business ever, like
change the world. Like what what advice
would you give to founders about sort of
Yeah. thinking about an exit and like
big companies and how much do you court
them and just give us some tactical
advice from your experience doing this?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, so I think anyone building
in big tech is is taking on some sort of
massive massive opportunity and whether
it's humanoid robots, world models,
materials, these are all huge categories
and it can be tempting to try and boil
the ocean. Uh but
&gt;&gt; you already you already have a huge
ambition,
&gt;&gt; huge ambition. So the the real challenge
is then how do you define a set of
milestones that make sense that can
align to funding funding goals you have?
How do you really, you know, focus
constrained resources towards a problem
that is going to differentiate you from
what are very competitive spaces in in
the early days and so that you know for
us that was building a safe robot to be
around and that was true mechanically
speaking. Uh but then we invested a lot
from a AI perspective in training robot
behaviors that were were capable but
compliant and so you know creating a
clear through line a set of milestones
and just being very deliberate on how
you spread your investments when uh
&gt;&gt; are the fundraising milestones and the
acquirer milestones like the same
because for the acquirer it's like needs
to be something they want whereas like I
guess the funer especially if you have
investors are willing to come back
around you can sort of pre-negotiate if
we do this you're still on the They're
they're similar, but um you know, you
always got to kind of play it a couple
couple rounds ahead. And I think you
know, both both spaces we're talking
about, but in in robotics specifically,
it is one of the most capital intensive
endeavors that that one could undertake.
And so thinking very hard about if you
take this next round, what does that
mean for the for the subsequent round
and the round after that? like what is
the trajectory that gets you to a either
an independent sustained sustaining
company or are there partners that are
important to develop along the way such
that you have a clear path to building
the business that you set out to build?
&gt;&gt; You could become unacquiraable if you
get to a certain scale. Um all right,
questions from the audience.
&gt;&gt; Great question.
&gt;&gt; Here I'll bring it to
&gt;&gt; uh so I have a question for Rob. So,
I've been learning about Sprout in my
courses and I find it really interesting
that it's um a smaller robot. I just
want to ask compared as as compared to
like the average humanoid. Where do you
see Sprout in like uh a person's
everyday life?
&gt;&gt; Um yeah. So, for those Sprout, Sprout is
our first robot. It's three and a half
feet tall, 50 pounds. Uh it has two
arms, two legs, uh articulated eyebrows
and LEDs around the face. So, it's it's
cute and engaging, but it's also capable
of interacting with doors,
refrigerators, you know, elevators, uh,
getting navigating autonomously. And so,
I think there's a lot a robot like that
could do in the home. And our starting
premise was, you know, it has to be safe
so that people trust it in their home to
start with. And that same robot could
learn to climb a ladder, right? And that
might actually be the first thing that
people want and are excited about and
and is capable of doing. many of the the
household chores that we one day care
about. And so that that was our approach
to the problem of how do you build a
general purpose machine that that then
can be useful near term.
&gt;&gt; Uh Pim, I did want like what is what is
your like agent stack or like what is
your how do you like supercharge
yourself as the CEO? Like clearly very
technical like what is to you the
cutting edge of having like the models
today like assist you in your job?
&gt;&gt; He can't give that away, dude.
No. Yeah. And and I do want to make it
very very clear like we are on an
incredible curve, right? Like the system
the capabilities are incredible. Uh I
I'm a big like cloud code power user. Um
I um like one of the things that we're
rolling out internally are systems that
like connect more pieces of the whole
organization so that anybody can hook
into cloud code. We also have entire so
one of the things that's interesting
that we did um like we have like a data
analyst. So we we were always
understaffed on data analysts and then
um there was a QA uh person from the
team we did. So one thing that we did is
we did a hackathon where we told
everybody to go build things around
cloud code and also the different models
that we did at the beginning of the year
and one of our um QA team members built
this thing called ML databy uh where
basically it's just a slack um
uh account like a bot object and then
you can just you can just talk to it and
it just is your is it is your data
analys
now he has made it so that it scales
alongside like the number of questions
it's getting and it feels like you're
just talking to a co-orker and this is
just felt very natural and very good and
we we all started using it like crazy um
to the point where like database was
getting overloaded because so many
employees at the same time we're asking
like highly concurrent like select
queries uh and so that worked really
really well um
my um I
&gt;&gt; but is that you like things that are at
the company level then rather than
thinking of yourself
&gt;&gt; I do it in my personal life too so I
have a lot of I have some automated
workflows that like go and download uh
my personal files from a lot of the
services that I use and then I can ask
uh like finances I can I can ask cloud
code like put together like a report of
like this or this or this and then I
just give a data sources and it just
goes and does it. It's quite helpful. Um
I have it connect to my calendar like I
I I use it as an interface to like all
the all the complexity of clicking
around uh and that's very very helpful.
&gt;&gt; Another audience question
right
&gt;&gt; it's good. Hey, I'm Anjet. I'm CEO of
Pillar Space Systems. We're building
some uh space hardware. Um I had a
question for Joe. How did you uh
approach the Rathon angle, I guess? Um
it's really cool that they're investing
in you. How did that come about?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, so I think um as as all good
relationships do, it came from a
business need and like the customer
side. So we met with their research
teams around what problems are you
trying to solve and what are you how do
you do materials today which which
morphed to you should meet the ventures
arm and I think we're in a very unique
time which might get in trouble for
saying but who cares um that defense is
having a huge push on innovation and for
Rathon it's not actually just defense no
the RTX umbrella they also have United
actually their biggest business line is
Pratt Whitney making turbines and so
they're have an even bigger push because
they're trying they're like feeding
they're like feeling all of this
innovation push from defense and arrow
on we need better planes we need longer
time we need better jet fuel just like
this constant push on innovation and so
they I think had a different lens to
looking at a company like us where I
don't know for sure but 5 years ago
might have been harder to understand
this early I think later on most likely
like when we have a product and they
know what we're doing but I think their
team was deeply convinced on Okay, we
know AI is going to change materials. We
know self-driving labs are going to make
a big impact. We we don't want to have
the expertise to do that. We build jet
turbines, so we should work with someone
who does. And I think that was where
there was a very congruent relationship.
Hey, dude. We're we're never building a
jet turbine. Like, we don't want to
compete with you there. We want to build
materials. And yeah, great. We're not a
materials company. We don't want to
compete with you there. It was a really
kind of good synergy that we formed
together. And I think the rest is uh
history from there. So, Super
interesting. Yeah,
right here. Sorry, in the front.
&gt;&gt; Hi, thanks for coming today. Um, I think
we all acknowledge how constrained the
supply chain layer is foundationally
given how fragmented the hardware supply
chain is. How are you deciding what
parts of the stack you need to control
versus rely on externally?
for for us it's you actually find the
common denominators.
Um we found that common denominator to
be like the game controller interface
for example but you got to find like the
in again you find the interfaces that
actually have a simple way of deploying
into them and I think a lot of things
are sort of downstream from there. Um
and sometimes you have to create the
interface like the the robots and that's
really really like you know hard and
then um yeah
&gt;&gt; uh it's cliche but true like first
principal analysis um what if there are
tools that we buy that have 36-month
lead times. So the first question we ask
is like what is the benefit of acquiring
the tool? Why are we acquiring the tool?
Like what is the use case of the tool in
the future? If it makes sense to custom
build that or like or make some type of
alteration to use it quickly because we
see it has X Y and Z use case in our
business moving forward, then that makes
sense. If it's like a oneoff or like we
don't have any other people that want
that tool, we just have to do that for
this contract. You're like less inclined
to want to go take on all that. That's
so much technical risk, capital
expenditure, and even focus. And I think
one of you mentioned focus earlier, like
you can boil the ocean very quickly.
Like you start talking to customers in
deep tech and next thing you know you
have 17 different problems to try to
solve. You need to be very good at
that's a cool problem like we don't work
on that that's a cool problem we don't
work on that and I think
&gt;&gt; you are constantly doing that as a
founder like if you are not doing that
as a founder I think you're actually
failing the organization particularly
early on because
the best skill is saying no right as as
as the saying goes and I think you have
to be really just laser focused on we
are solving this because of this if a
hardware requirement meets solving that
I will build it if it doesn't I'm going
to find another way to get it that's the
way we think about it.
&gt;&gt; All All good succinct audience
questions. I love this crowd so far.
Who's next? All right.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I was wondering how you think
about um with like materials for example
the kind of just like throughput
constraints that exist on building stuff
out. And so like for example I think
Google DeepMind uh had like 2.2 million
materials they discovered. They think
40,000
are stable. It's like okay how do I make
all of these and then how do I convince
people that they work right? And to your
point around like we're using a 100-y
old alloys, I think part of it is that
people know the stress strain curve and
they've used it for a hundred years and
it's like even now that we have like 40
different concrete alternatives, like
you can't build a house with them
because like you can't get that in
building code. And it's like how do you
think about that when you're talking
about critical industries like defense,
like oh you should use this new alloy
I've invented that like trust me it
works. Um and like we should put you
know pilots and and stuff in there.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, really good question. I'll touch
both parts. So on the latter part is
called qualification in the aerospace
industry. And for those in the audience,
qualification is essentially the process
of confirming what this gentleman said,
which is hey, we we feel safe to fly
that. Like that's going to fly in a
fighter jet, that's going to fly in a
manned aircraft, or it's going to fly on
something else. And and ironically, I
think in some of those industries,
you're actually seeing the companies who
make the end products vertically
integrate. And we were surprised by this
when we went to market. We thought we
would have to vertically integrate
immediately to like get material to
production and instead they're actually
vertically integrating from the top
down. So these aerospace companies are
saying we are tired of dealing with the
qualification requirements of the US gov
or or any other administration or kind
of organization. we're just going to do
it oursself and I can you know list off
the top of my head multiple companies
who you are all aware of that have
material teams inhouse bypassing
qualification for their own systems now
in air
&gt;&gt; which means the government then
certifies the whole
&gt;&gt; yeah so there's like these like list
that the government has I think FAA runs
run there's a military spec list as well
for manned aircraft as well as like
missiles um that control like if
something is qualified to be used in
those systems and so obvious Obviously
like for commercial aircraft like you
have they're going to follow that
requirement. They're the slowest least
innovative people uh in the world. Um
but like for aerospace space they do not
in some of their systems need to follow
those. They're launching their own
rocket on their own dime and and as long
as they're doing that in a way that they
can prove it's safe they have already
done own custom alloy development. I've
I've seen it before. So the
qualification piece I think is you're
seeing this again the stack come the
other way and the throughput will be the
bottleneck there and how much they can
actually make because they're not
material companies they're aerospace
companies. So that's kind of the second
one. On the first one the throughput
side is the hardest part in science. And
so one of the reasons that that genome
or matter genen or any of these papers
that have come out have been poor is
they're trained on computational data
only. And computational data is cool.
Like it's fun to simulate electrons, but
it's not the real world. And if you call
any customer in the world and say, "Look
at this amazing material I made you on
my computer screen." They'll say, "Yeah,
cool. Can you send it to me in the
mail?" Like, I can I use it? Can I
actually put it in my product? And if
the answer's no to that, then I don't
think you've actually discovered a new
material. And so when you see these
models kind of coming out with new
materials, they're not new materials,
they're new ideas of materials. And
until you can make them, you don't have
new ones. That's why self-driving labs
are super important. That's how you
solve the throughput problem.
&gt;&gt; Um, sure.
Can you
&gt;&gt; Hey, thanks uh thanks for the thoughts
here. LLM revolution was powered
primarily by publicly available
um data sets that were um mostly
accessible to a lot of the labs and a
lot of the the people. uh when we switch
to physical intelligence, robots, world
models, uh how do you see the data
bottleneck, how do you overcome it? Um
how does it uh how do the use cases map
to data? So we hear about game data and
so on. But in games primarily it is
first person shooter uh and so on. And
if I want to teach my robots how to lift
boxes in a warehouse, how do you
actually map that use case to what data
you need and how do you get that?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, so that's why world models are
so important because you don't want to
train a model to predict violent
actions, but you also want the model to
be able to simulate environments that
can do that so that you can evaluate
your agent against it and you want to
train on the positive actions and
evaluate on the negative ones, right? So
that's why you don't just run like large
scale imitation learning and then shoot
that agent into the real world like the
you use world models such that you have
an environment that understands all the
possible unfolding dynamics and then you
use an agent and and reward them
specifically for the behaviors that you
actually want to see. Um uh so it's
actually the the counterpoint to that
argument is actually that you need games
to simulate the extreme the the
scenarios that you want to avoid
against. Now, um I would argue that the
entire field is still in the research
phase. I like there are no um uh there
are no like and again I'm I'm kind of
somewhat artistic um uh like like no
known scaling laws that are like there's
some but not like in text world where
you can just you can predict like what
type of data you need for what type of
thing. Um, so so so that's the
difference. I think everyone's still
figuring it out.
&gt;&gt; You don't It's not like Tesla inhales
all this data and the huge advantage.
You don't think there's
&gt;&gt; They do. They do. And it's for sure
useful, but I think the the general
solve, which is what I think you're
asking, the general solve like LLMs,
those skilling like there are skilling
laws for specific embodiment for
specific situations like driving is
better than others, but the general
solve is not as clear as LLMs. I think
there's ideas.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I I mean I think what is working
today is in places like self-driving
cars where it's a fairly straightforward
controls problem and a more complicated
environmental you know spatial
understanding uh problem and model you
can build around that but the same is
true in robotics like the things that
people get working are actually quite
narrow uh stair climbing door opening uh
packing a box like these aren't one
models that solve all of these problems
and you know that can either be with
real world data we rely a lot on sim Is
that true with like physical
intelligence? I mean they present it as
very broad the you don't think the
folding laundry is like generally
applicable
&gt;&gt; I mean I don't think it's solved and I
don't think we yet understand the
scaling laws associated with current
approaches to say that with just a bit
more data
&gt;&gt; laundry is solved. I I agree, fully
agree. Um I I can if we have some time,
I can try to go into how to think about
the scaling laws, but it might take me
like a few minutes.
&gt;&gt; So you tell me.
&gt;&gt; It's hard to preview if this is where I
don't know. Give us just like a couple
bullets and people can follow up with
you.
&gt;&gt; So there's complexities related to the
degrees of freedom of the robot, right?
There's and then um so a humanoid is
like large degrees of freedom. A
self-driving system is like very low
degrees of freedom. Um, and so your
scaling laws are different depending on
the the degree of freedom. Then within
the degree of freedom, you can have
different types of predictions, right?
So if you're predicting at the level of
a game controller, you can just predict
like a a bit or like a val a digital
value like you but if you go for robotic
arm, you might need to predict like
motor torque or something. And so every
degree of freedom has like different
values that that need. So there's
complexity there. Then so there's
scaling laws on on the degrees of
freedom on the on the input space. Then
there's skilling laws on the
environment, right? So the where the
robot operates. And then there are
skilling laws on like the sensors
themselves. Uh and so like anybody kind
of claiming that they have a very
general soul is like full of [ __ ]
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I I love this crowd. A very Yeah,
New York is doing Yeah, I should Okay,
great. Enthusiastic. Go for it.
&gt;&gt; All right. Thanks. Um, so you have a
material science company and one thing
that I uh you said about like cars 100
years ago uh they use all these old
alloys but they also only needed like
five or six elements and then a car
today needs like 150 and so can you talk
about where the raw materials are coming
from and how those raw materials get
into the pipeline of what you're doing
in your company?
&gt;&gt; Uh really good question. probably the
question I get the most when I go to
Washington DC and I'm on the Hill or or
at the Pentagon or at the Department of
Energy. Um like where the heck do you
source those things? Um and I think
you're seeing a big you know critical
minerals has been a talked about area a
lot. Um it's the derived products
category of critical minerals that is
super interesting and there has been a
focus from DC on like what are these
things actually going into and so I'll
give you a perfect example. you know
C103 super common alloy in aerospace and
defense it's got cool properties you can
read about it it's made with hapneium
and ha it has a high weight percentage
of hapneium hafneium is almost entirely
I think it's like 90 something% owned by
China so now DOE and DO are very worried
about halfneium content in their
materials so not only is there a
question of can you make a new alloy
that's got way better performance we
actually get questions like can you make
the same alloy but with no half game at
all. And and we've been able to do that.
Like we've done that successfully, but
that is almost a different materials
problem because now you're trying to hit
on the same property constraints but
just remove the inputs and that's a
different problem than different inputs
with maybe different property
constraints that allow you to kind of
extrapolate the periodic table more. We
can we can go use a refractory metal to
drive strength. We can't use a
refractory metal in C3 um or like a new
refractory metal in C3. So critical
minerals are contained to be really
important. Um
&gt;&gt; but you're saying your philosophy is
mostly to try and like cut out minerals
you don't want rather than find new
minerals.
&gt;&gt; You can there there are places where
it's really hard to like nickelbased
super alloys they just have elements
that we don't control. And that I think
that's why you see like an effort in
dollars and onshoring because there has
been an acknowledgement no we c we
probably cannot get rid of them. we
better onshore or nearshore that
technology rapidly. There are some
elements where I think there is a push
to get rid of. I think people had shown
that nobbium based alloys, the high
entropy field had really cool properties
and there might be materials in there. I
I can guarantee there are I know what
some of them are that don't have haft
and I think the field was convinced on
that and it's kind of where it's pushing
today. So it it depends is the like
unfortunate real answer.
&gt;&gt; Uh one last question. I think I've been
avoiding you. So
&gt;&gt; sure on purpose just
&gt;&gt; in each of your sectors how much do you
worry or used to worry about uh
competition from mega capitalized labs
and corporations
&gt;&gt; zero
I have a very unique view on
competition. I I rarely think about
competition. I I just think it is such a
waste of mental brain space and that you
have one job as a team to execute on
what your mission is and be the best in
the world at that. I pay attention to
what our competitors do. I'm not naive
to what the market's doing. I'm just not
like drooling over the fact that they've
come out with a new release. Like I hope
you did. I mean otherwise like what the
hell are you doing all day long? I mean
we we're doing the same thing. And so
yeah, near competitors and startups, I
think you should be aware like big tech
or like big labs in very unique spaces.
I just think they just have no chance of
competing. Um, in more generalized
spaces where they have raw compute or
raw data like ads, you know, ads is
probably a tough space to compete with
with meta and YouTube. I don't know.
Like I don't work in ads. Um but in
materials I I don't think Meta is going
to compete with us in materials or
Microsoft or Google or or really any of
them personally. That's just a personal
&gt;&gt; how much do you think about the
competition?
&gt;&gt; I think so. Why is Enthropic winning?
It's because they are close to their
customers and they like put their AVLs
and like model training runs and they um
like how much do you really care about
like the 1% benchmark versus what your
customers are actually using? They're
they just move fast with their customers
in a way that OpenAI and Google can't
because they are larger more bloated
organizations that are more distracted.
&gt;&gt; Your answer is I specifically worry
about Anthropic. Is read between the
lines.
&gt;&gt; No, I'm giving you it as an example of
like Anthropic was not the incumbent in
the space that is now looking like
they're actually winning, right? They
were in that position and they won by
focusing on their customers and ignoring
everything else and by focusing on code.
&gt;&gt; And I would argue and I don't know them.
I didn't work on Anthropic that they did
that by like not worrying about what
Open AI was doing and like what
customers customers what do they what do
people like what do people like
&gt;&gt; Rob I mean you're sort of the flip side
of big companies can be good or
&gt;&gt; damn you got to be super careful with
this answer
&gt;&gt; uh I think there are there are things
that small companies can do that big
companies really struggle to do. Um, I
said it before, but focus and attention
and like a very opinionated product is
is very hard to come by in the earliest
stages at big companies. And so I think
you can build up momentum on a
trajectory and you got to be right about
where you're choosing to focus that that
is a problem that matters and it'll be
differentiated. Um, but pushing hard on
that thing is is something that only
startups I think can do very
effectively. And so we got to a point
where I think we had enough of kind of a
kindling fire that you know it made
sense to to have a big partner and to
help that grow. But in in the earliest
days it's about how do you get that
spark into something something
meaningful and and that's harder for big
companies.
&gt;&gt; Couldn't imagine a better last word than
that. Ode to startups. All right. This
was awesome. Great crowd. Thank you.
