原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aPfnP4iAIH8

You have to play the game. It's totally
irrational not to play the game.
&gt;&gt; This is John Miles White. He was a
director of engineering on PyTorch in
MSL. And since he quit recently, we
talked freely. I feel like our goals
should not be written in a way where
shipping a thing we intend to delete is
a success. The general perception is the
supply of engineers is like way over
supplied.
&gt;&gt; We also talked about the incentives in
big tech. You ran promotions in AI Infra
for a long time. You know, the only
reason you do anything is because
there's a clear story about how it's
going to get you a promotion.
&gt;&gt; You saw this. I saw this. What could you
do, though?
Here's the full episode.
I'm curious if you're bullish on MSL,
like after you were working there for a
bit and kind of seeing it from the
inside. O, this is a I guess like a a
more radical question, but I guess I
will be honest. Um, I am very bullish on
Meta as a company that I am now a
stockholder of, but not an employee. I
am very bearish on Meta if you're an
employee who's not a stockholder. Uh,
which is turns out to not be really
anyone, but like you know, I think you
can think of yourself as mostly employee
if you're mostly getting cash and mostly
not equity. the more senior folks are
the ones who are more mostly stockholder
than employee. Um
I and I think that's the the tension is
I do think like my sense is that it's
enforced with I don't get the perception
is unique to MSL. My perception is that
I think just meta as a place to be an
employee is less enjoyable than it used
to be but it actually is being run very
effectively if what you care about is
the bottom line of the business. Uh and
so like I continue to invest in meta and
I suspect I will continue to invest
because I do think it's actually from a
business perspective run quite well but
I do think pretty uniformly I think it's
not unique to MSL I do think it's a much
more stressful time to be an employee
there than before.
&gt;&gt; What's the part that makes it where
you're saying employees might not uh
enjoy working there as much as they used
to?
&gt;&gt; I I think that I mean I think this is
true of all of Silicon Valley. I think
in general like there was a a lot of
sense that like it was incredibly easy
to lose your good employees and so you
had to do everything impossible to
sacrifice to retain them and you were
constantly constrained by an under
supply of employees and I think
basically everyone in Silicon Valley's
view as far as I can tell is that that's
mostly not true outside of like a small
set of like AI researchers and frontier
labs where I think people do still
behave this way. In fact, maybe behave
this way more than ever before. But I
think for everyone else, the general
perception is the supply of engineers is
like way over supplied. And especially I
think actually people's concern is with
AI maybe they're really oversupplied. I
think what happens is a new market
dynamic which is like I think as an
employer you're thinking I don't
actually have to make so many sacrifices
to acquire and retain talents and so
therefore I'm going to make fewer of
them. And this can play out in a million
ways, but it can be like compensation,
but it can also be things of like do we
do things that upset the employees or do
we not? And how hesitant are we? Um how
much do we give them a voice and how
much do we not give them a voice? I
think that stuff has changed a lot in
the years I was at Meta. Um but my
impression is meta is not in any way
unique here. This is just a general
property of all of Silicon Valley. Um
but I do think you know as an employee I
think it the the like the labor supply
and demand situation is super different
from when I started and I think it is a
thing that is going to make generally
being an employee rougher period.
&gt;&gt; It it feels like it can be subtle as
well like what you described of I guess
employees having less leverage. you
could see that affecting
um maybe even like reorg decisions or
things like that where it's like you
know if people leave that is part of the
calculus of the reorg and that is less
of a downside in now and maybe in the
future. So I can see there being a lot
of downstream effects where uh things
just don't go as well for for employees.
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah. I mean there's just so much
stuff that in the previous versions of
meta was done that arguably was a bad
decision for the business but made sense
from the context of retaining talent. Um
you know and I think that the company is
just doing less of that. But on the flip
side I mean I guess to be clear I didn't
say as explicitly before I do think for
most people like fundamentally just like
the possibility you might get laid off
is the number one emotional thing that
causes people stress and living in a
world where you know that is both
happened recently and may happen again
in the future. I think sort of like is
probably beats out all the other
questions of sort of lifts and like food
and stuff. I think I think when prior to
the layoffs when those things got taken
away, people freaked out and were like
this is unforgivable. But then like once
they're like, "Oh wait, uh actually you
guys might just fire me." So now I'm
much more tolerant of you taking away my
food away. Um but I do think that like
that that fundamentally like it probably
drives for most people like the vast
majority of it. And I actually think for
as well this probably is one of the
things that makes say MSL more stressful
than the other frontier labs is the
sense that it might have layoffs in the
sense that I think you know so far there
have been fewer rounds or at least
perceived to be fewer rounds some of the
smaller startups like open AAI and
Robic. I
&gt;&gt; I think another thing that is oftentimes
used for retention is the promise of
growth or I guess career growth for an
employee. And you know I know you you
ran promotions in AI Infra for a long
time. I was curious like if you saw
things change over the years. I observed
a lot of divisions of meta would really
like stop talking about like well your
comp is why you're here and we pay you
good money and you enjoy the work and
that's why you stay and a lot of people
were like no the only reason you do
anything is because there's a clear
story about how it's going to get you a
promotion and you would like especially
this was really striking when I moved
from data infra where is one of the
places I was in earlier in infra moving
to AI infra and I was in infra for a
while before I came to sort of pipe
George of AI infra and then later MSL.
One of the things that blew my mind is
like there was not a single person I
would meet on any team in AI infra whose
first and foremost goal wasn't
promotion. This was a thing that sort of
came up in data infra but was not like
90% of people's attention. And when I
started at Meta it was just like not
ever a thing. Uh actually like you know
I used to manage one of your previous
guests Adrian and like Adrian and I were
talked about career growth back in the
day and one of the things that was
really amazing was like we started this
or growth that actually had never had
anyone above IC7 ever in history
um on the suicide to be clear there were
some other rules that hadn't but like um
at least this is what we were told I
actually don't know for a fact it was
object objectively true but we were told
this by several people um I think in
that world you just you weren't focused
on promotion so it wasn't a big thing,
but then it became a thing where it was
like this is the thing like you will one
get more money more promoted but also
you'll have a title that you can use for
your next job and like everything is
driven by promotion dynamics. Um
actually I would say the orc I sound by
far most strong in was monetization.
um which is like when monetization would
hire people out of AI infra, it would
always literally be like here is a very
detailed plan of work you will do in
order to get promoted and that was a
thing that worked very effectively. But
it also my experience like wrecked tons
of teams and I managed a bunch of those
teams now to fix them but they were
teams where like basically everyone
agreed the thing we were working on was
bad. No one thought it would succeed,
but people were like, "Oh, but I have to
ship it because that's my promo bar."
And you get into the state where it's
sort of just impossible to even make
good decisions about software anymore
because the promotions were so
important. And then I think what
happened as the market became less
promployee is that people were like,
"Oh, no, no, no. You you should be
afraid of being laid off. You should not
be worried about the positive chance of
a promotion." Um, but I don't know that
that was a I don't think that was a good
cultural fix, but I do think it's been a
bit of like an attempt to undo some of
the damage from before. But I do think
that like sort of promotional mindset
was incredibly intense everywhere. And
and ironically, it led to this thing
which I found really troubling, which is
the thing that would actually let you
develop real skills that would do better
in your career going forward
increasingly got decoupled from the
promotions. You know, and I've seen a
lot of people on Twitter over the years
say this and I find it very compelling
which is people are like the main thing
that's wrong with the engineering
cultures at the big tech companies is
the promote culture and I really agree.
Uh I actually think Meta ironically my
perception seems to be doing better at
this than many of the other companies
that have even more formal processes and
more anonymous parties involved. But I
do think they'll like oh what really
matters is that you like ran a roll out
that affected 10 other systems. This
causes people to like not build clean
systems. It causes them to build systems
that maximally are coupled to the other
systems in order to be able to hit the
promo bar. And that I think actually I
met so many people who didn't even like
the work they were doing because they're
like well this is what will get me
promoted. Uh, and so I do think that
stuff was really unfortunate and
especially I think actually in the AI
world has been especially unfortunate
because it means like unless someone is
clear how using the AI tooling is going
to get them promoted, they may not do
it. But it is without doubt in my mind
the only thing that's going to matter
for actual professional development and
growth and actually being able to do
more interesting work in the future.
Yeah, I definitely saw some some unusual
behaviors, but we're all trying to play
the game because it helps people get
promoted and you retain people and all
that. So,
&gt;&gt; yeah. I mean, unless your VP is ready to
fix that and totally shut it down, like
you have to play the game. It's totally
irrational not to play the game. And I
think, you know, you either if you don't
want to be in that, you have to leave
the or if you're there, you've got to
play the game. You cannot be the one who
sort of unilaterally disarms. But it is
I mean it was it was mind-blowing to me
to see this culture I think was unique
to both Marization and AI infra but it
was completely dominant in AI infra and
it was really it was not great for any
parties and funny thing is it was like
it wasn't even good for the people who
were in it like they themselves had
gotten into this rat race that seemed to
be demoralizing to them you saw this I
saw this what what could you do though
when I was in it too the people who were
talking about it they were not
necessarily saying Yeah, this is this is
good. They were saying, "Yep, I'm doing
this that I don't believe in, but we
both know that I need to do this for
this reason, so I'm doing it."
&gt;&gt; I think there are sort of two high
sources of uncertainty that compete, and
I don't quite know how they balance out,
but I think one is like I think people
have a ton of agency in choosing the
culture of the team they want to be on.
And if they're in a situation like that
and they don't love it, Meta has a lot
of teams that don't have that culture.
There are a lot of teams like PyTorch
was one of them where people were just
like genuinely in it for the love of the
craft and like people loved engineering
as engineering and PyTorch in a way that
I think was not present in a bunch of
other parts of meta. I think people
wanted to come to PyTorch for that
reason and I think people came and were
happy for that reason. So I do think
people just have agency in that sense
which is like yeah within the context of
that machine you got to follow the rules
but it's not like you're forced to be in
that machine. There were other rules. um
not everyone would get them and vet was
very choosy but I think many people
could and it was worth doing. I think
the alternative though is also is like
even within a team managers can differ a
lot and how much they push on this. And
I have personally at least been a person
who I think mostly benefited from
actually trying to bet on be on the
stable team that will gradually succeed
over time and we'll have a healthy
culture and not collapse and not do
things like overlevel ourselves. But it
does mean that you get promoted slower.
And this is where I think I I do
struggle with this a bit, which is I
think like if at the end of the day what
you really want to do is do something
like compute your total sum of earnings
over your entire lifetime. It may be
better to be in the orgs that get
promoted really fast and get fired
really fast, but there are a lot of
those orgs at meta where people are
like, well, they're the stars. Oh,
actually, no. It turns out they're
terrible and lied to us, so we got rid
of all of them. This happened a bunch of
times in the year meta. Um, it might be
that that is actually economically
rational. I'm not sure. But certainly I
think for myself about emotionally
rational and feeling like I enjoy the
craft of stuff. Being on the teams and
PyTorch was like this. I mean, one of
the challenges actually PyTorch had with
hiring was actually the perception that
PyTorch held a higher bar. People would
be like, "Oh, I've heard you guys are
actually like much tougher about
promotions." And I'd be like, "Yeah,
honestly, we are." Like, honestly, like
our eights are like as good as you're
going to get anywhere in this whole
world. And you know, if you want to be
the best engineer you're ever going to
be in your entire life, you should work
with them. But like Rates probably are
better than the 10ens in a couple of
other teams. Um, if you want to be a 10,
you maybe should be in that team
instead. uh and I think for some people
that would really turn them off. But I
think part of this was again the like
sort of like agency and selection
mechanism as I think PyTorch selected
people who actually just loved
engineering as engineering and then
there were people who were willing to
tolerate slightly fewer promotions and
ironically one things I think was
interesting though was that it became a
bit of like um magic thing that kind of
turned out well which is because people
perceived Pyarch to hold such a high bar
it was much easier for us to convince
people outside of PyTorch that actually
our people were ready for eight or nine
or And whereas other teams when they
tried to make this argument, they're
like, "Oh, but you you guys are not well
known for holding a high bar. Maybe you
guys are just overselling these people."
But in PineTorch, people were like, "Oh
yeah, like you you guys hired our guy
and thought he was pretty bad, so
actually we think you probably are
credible." Um, and I think that that
like again it's like in the short term
doesn't actually accumulate as fast, but
I think in the long term does have a ton
of benefits. Whether it is the absolute
like compensation maximizing algorithm,
I'm not sure. And that's where I have a
little bit like torn up torn. But for
me, I was also like I was willing to get
20% less compensation to be in a place
that I was more proud of.
&gt;&gt; Actually, that's funny because I
remember someone from PyTorch would join
one of our collaborations for instance.
You know, we someone would join and go,
"Oh, he's a five." But really, he's like
a seven. like he's he's better than all
of our engineers, but we don't know why
he's a five, but he's a five. That was
not uncommon working with that or
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I mean again, this is like
I mean would it would come out like flat
out in like opportunity chats where we
tried to hire someone and they're like,
"Hey, you know, Pike George is cool, but
like aren't you guys like really
underleveled?" That would be like the
first question people would ask and have
to be like maybe or maybe we're holding
the right levels. Uh you know, you got
to decide where you want to take a
chance on us. But you know but I think
the flip side is you know that you know
we really did train people like a lot of
people who were in PyTorch really
learned to be remarkably good.
&gt;&gt; I know before PyTorch you you worked on
some of the data and experimentation
tools at Meta. How was that work and
like how was your experience growing in
in early Facebook before all this promo
craziness? Well, I came into a wild ride
uh which was actually honestly an
amazing experience and you know some of
my happiest years of my life from like
my first two years of meta but also some
of the most fearsome and scary years
were also there. But like um I joined
the team that I signed up for and when I
signed up it was supposed to be called
data science before I arrived because I
asked for a six-month leave to work on
Julia um the programming language I was
one of the core contributors to. I asked
for a six-month leave between finishing
grad school and going to Facebook at
that time. Uh and during that six-month
period, the guy who hired me quit and
then the team that was called data
science that I was hired into got split
into two teams. One called core data
science and one called data science
infrastructure. And then that itself
became really tricky because I wound up
joining core data science but really
loving collaborating with the data
science infrastructure people who were
the ones who own the experimentation
tools. um working in the experimentation
tools was like honestly like I think to
this day the most most people who know
me from meta are like oh yeah John was
really helpful for that stuff. I
actually think like almost nothing I
worked on as an IC ever went anywhere
close to being as valuable to the
business as the experimentation stuff.
Um and I don't think I was ever as good
at any of the other stuff. Uh I really
loved being in that space. Um and I
think it was like really influential to
the business. Um that said, I was on
this core data science team that was
like an insane ball of stress. You know,
I joined it was been radically reorged.
It had new managers. I actually wound up
really liking the new managers, but that
was still a source of churn. But then a
few months into it, someone who actually
was on the data science infrastructure
team, which is particularly what's
amusing, but attributed his team to
being core data science uh because he
perceived that to be sort of the team he
really was on when he wrote this paper.
published this paper um in PNAS, the
proceedings of National Academy of
Science, called something like emotional
contagion and social networks. Um that
wound up just becoming like the absolute
singular worst piece of PR for meta as a
business that year. Um just absolute
disaster. I mean I was like really
really trying to prevent this from
happening but I didn't have the
authority to prevent it. But like you
know at least people perceive I was on
the side who was not happy with this
decision. Um but it meant that I you
know was on this team where I was doing
the data science infrastructure work
that was sort of very inward facing and
very safe but I was affiliated with a
more researchy division that was
publishing these papers that went from
becoming sort of a PR win to a PR
nightmare very rapidly. Um and that team
I think was one of the most my formative
experiences at Meta because it really
was like well what happens if this team
just gets fully disbanded and this was
like in a world where there weren't
layoffs. was like, "Well, Meta doesn't
do layoffs, but this team maybe has got
itself to a state where it's going to
get laid off." Um, you know, and the guy
who wrote this paper wound up having to
do like a companywide Q&amp;A where
effectively he sort of just apologized
to the entire business as his Q&amp;A. Um,
it was really just like a mind-blowing
experience and it was like one where
it's like, you know, I came as an IC4
and all of a sudden we were like in
these meetings with like, you know, the
head of legal being like, well, why did
you guys do this? uh and you know having
to have these discussions with them on a
regular basis and really trying to
figure through like what was the future
of our team um but it was great um that
blew over for what it's worth and then I
spent several years just working on our
experimentation tools you know I was
like one of the main developers of uh
Deltoid 3 which is I think now just
called Deltoid because I think it's been
deltoid for so long they just refer to
it as Deltoid but at one point it was
like the third iteration um and I worked
a ton on that and then especially was a
great example of how career growth can
actually happen which is
I was on the team and then all of a
sudden almost all the senior engineers
left the team in the span of like six
months and then I went from being like
and at the point maybe I was already an
IC5 when they all left. I'm not sure but
I went from being like one of the people
on the team building experimentation
tools to the only one who remembered how
anything worked left and suddenly I went
from being sort of random IC5 to like de
facto TL for a bunch of stuff. Um, which
was actually an amazing opportunity for
growth. And I think people understate
how often these things can happen in
tech. Um, but it meant that I wound up
like really being like able to drive a
bunch of the vision for the AB testing
tools for years, which were, you know,
hugely successful at Meta. Um, and it
really was like some of the most
fulfilling work I ever did at Meta.
And just to give people context, Deltoid
is the AB testing framework or the thing
that you opt in, you know, one code path
to A, one code path to B and you measure
all the the downstream benefits of
ideally your test, right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean, uh, I I think one of
the things that's actually kind of
mind-blowing to me is like, you know,
actually, it's one of these decisions
where maybe I did make bad career
decisions, which is like, uh, as far as
I can tell, every time I've ever looked
at it, the stat product, which I now
don't know what it state is after they
got up at OpenAI, is just like is
deltoid. Uh, this is one of the things
where like, you know, stuff in meta,
when you've been at Meta, you work on
these things like awesome in data sour,
but when people are like, what's data
swarm? I'm like, it is literally
airflow. And it's not like
metaphorically airflow like the guy who
wrote Airflow built data quit and like a
week later open sourced airflow. Uh you
know in the deltoid it's like not quite
the same because it's not the same
people left and built stats sig. But my
perception is that for most people who
will be watching this if they've ever
seen statig my perception is that like
almost the entire UI is the same. Almost
all the functionality is the same. Um,
that's one of these things where I like,
you know, probably should have built a
steeltoid startup many years earlier and
I did not have the wisdom to do that.
&gt;&gt; I think there was another one called
Optimizely as well. Yeah. So, I've I've
seen many companies, it seems like a
very repeatable playbook where you just
take something that people take for
granted that's state-of-the-art from a
big tech company and you just give it to
everyone in the industry and it actually
creates like a billion dollar company.
is pretty I it's it's hard, but at least
the product market fit and idea part are
relatively solved since it's creating so
much value for these big companies. For
this podcast, I produced transcripts for
every episode for convenient skimming
and I built a custom tool to automate
that. Recently, I noticed in the Barbara
Liskoff transcript, my simple
speechtoext tool was getting a lot of
things wrong. For instance, the clue
programming language is spelled all caps
clu, not clue. So to fix this, I used
cursor 3, picked the strongest version
of Opus 4.7 extra high, and had an agent
make a plan to fix that. And while I was
waiting, I figured I'd trigger a few
more agents for code cleanups and
front-end improvements. Um, it generated
a reasonable plan with rich system
diagrams. It applied all the changes
within minutes and worked on the first
try. So if you want to build something
with the flexibility of sending off a
bunch of agents with frontier models of
your choice, you can go to cursor.com to
try out cursor 3. You know, I saw before
you worked at Meta, you were working on
the Julia programming language, and I
actually wasn't familiar about it, so I
I read into a little bit and looks like
it was part of these data science
language wars basically where there was
R versus Julia versus Python. What is
Julia and what what is the context on
that war there?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, certainly I think I made it
more of a part of the war. I don't think
it had to necessarily be part of it. Uh
although I do think also like the simple
fact of the reality is like programming
languages are products and products
exist in an ecosystem where they're in
zero sum competition and claim claiming
that they're not in zero sums
competition is like a very cute thing
that people say is appropriate but is
clearly false and I think just makes
everyone worse by misleading them. Um
but like um I mean so Julia for me and
essentially sort of why did Julia so so
appealing? I mean for me what Julia's
pitch was like we should be able to
write code in a highle language that
looks like Python or like mat lab which
is really the language it was originally
designed to destroy. It was really
designed to get rid of mat lab. It was
made by MIT math people who wanted to
get rid of mat lab. Um and it really
like targeted that market much more than
data science at start and sort of I
think I was involved in pushing it
towards data science. But you know to me
the thing I always do when I give talks
about Julie is be like listen let's look
at the R function for distance like
compute a distance matrix between a
bunch of vectors. So you like you know
pairs of vectors and you get all the
distance matrix.
Um, if you look at like that function
and you actually try to figure out how
it's implemented in R, what you find is
like C code that is very reasonable C
code that is just a bunch of for loops
like you know loop through all the rows
and all the columns and then compute the
distance at that row and you're done. If
you basically take that code verbatim
and just trans like translate it naively
into R, you're going to take some type
information away. you going to get rid
of some like ins and float signatures,
but otherwise you can basically write
four loops that look exactly the same.
VR code is going to be like somewhere
between a thousand to 10,000 times
slower than C. And this to me was the
thing that just like drove me insane
where I'm just like, wait, what? Like
these two programs are like 80% the
same. Why is one not as fast? And Julia
really was all about this notion that
like that was unacceptable. And that's
what made it so appealing when the first
p like the first post by the original
founders went out. I was like, "Oh, you
guys are doing the thing I wanted people
to do, which is like
not claim that it is impossible to make
high level languages fast, which is like
so much of actually how the Python R
community sometimes behave is to be
like, oh well, we can't be fast, but
also fast isn't important." And to me,
like that that double hit of like, well,
we can't be it and is not important
really didn't work for me. So Julia
really resonated. I think I probably as
the guilty party of trying to make it
more part of the data science wars
because I was myself a heavy user of R
and was just so disappointed in R. Um
just so incredibly disappointed in how
often I would try to do a project and R
just like fought me at every step of the
way. Um but Python is also like this. I
if you look at all the really great
libraries like PyTorch like you know
deep down at the end of the day you're
going to look at C++ code or you're
maybe even looking at like handwritten
assembly or handwritten like kernels for
GPUs. Um or at least you're looking at
something written in a much lower level
language. Um and so Julia was really
like about trying to solve that. And I
don't think it totally won which I think
is probably why you didn't know about
it. I think it was very hip at one point
and has become less hip but it's
actually doing okay. Like it's I think
it's in the top 25 programming languages
by users in the world. I think it's a
real a real language that's really out
there. But for me, the thing that really
matters is even though I don't know that
it's killing it, Julia is like the only
people still actually fighting that
fight. Well, what's the intuition behind
why R is like 10,000 times slower when
the code is, you know, the symbols are
relatively similar to the C.
&gt;&gt; Fundamentally, any code that's slow is
slow because it's doing stuff it doesn't
need to do. Like that's just sort of the
most basic fact about slow code is that
the reason you're slow is because you
could have done something else and you
did something slower instead. And
something like R is doing this, but even
you see this in Python, it's not quite
as dire, but it's still there is you
wind up paying an enormous amount of
overhead cost for the possibility that
someone might do something more dynamic.
And because they might do it. And to
give you the example which is really
astonishing about R is in R for instance
the brace that you use to in define a
block is an operator that can be
overridden and the user can redefine. So
they can make braces mean something
else. But so that means when you see a
brace in code, you can't just be like, I
know what this is. I can move on. You
have to be like, no, I need to look up
and check. Did the user redefine this?
Um I think I think it's brace and not
parenthesis but it's been a while so I
haven't delve in but it may also be
parenthesis or it's possible I flop
flipped them. We can like you know check
offline and see whether my memory is
good but like you just wind up with so
much stuff like this that is so like
maybe changed and you don't know whether
it changed. So you need to go check
whether it changed and the checks are
very expensive especially if you're
doing something like adding two 60 bit
64-bit integers. That's like one machine
cycle. Like it is one machine cycle. But
a check like does addition still mean
what I think it is? Could be hundreds to
thousands of machine cycles. And so you
wind up like swapping in things that are
very inefficient places that you don't
need. And this is particularly R is
amazing. Like there's this amazing paper
by a couple of students uh and a a
senior professor named Yan Vitec. But
it's about the design uh called
something like uh evaluating design of
the R programming language. And one of
the things they look at is like
especially R has an especially tricky
thing which is unlike Python. R is also
a lazily evaluate laying language where
the arguments to functions are not
evaluated before you start the function
body. They wait until the function kicks
off and they just are passed as promise
objects. And what they look at is they
look at like well how often are these
promises could have been affect like
eagerly evaluated and how often is the
overhead of these promises worth and
their conclusion is like 70% or maybe
more maybe it's 90% I forget the numbers
you basically have no reason you needed
to do this like almost never do you need
this but you actually pay like an
enormous overhead cost for having agreed
to do this. Um, and a good example I say
in Python also is like in Python you can
like manipulate the symbol table using
functions in the inspect module. And so
what that means is like you can never be
sure of what something's bound to. You
always have to be afraid and check. Um,
and just sort of general the lack of
invariance like that's what makes a
language fast is like you have lots of
invariance. What makes your language
slow is you have lots of stuff you might
have to go confirm at runtime. and ours
is just incredibly pervasively like
this.
&gt;&gt; I looked at some of your popular past
tweets and I thought maybe we could
discuss some of them. So sure
&gt;&gt; one of them this is the most popular
tweet that I think you ever wrote and
you you said that you're continually
continually disappointed by how many
grad students and postocs get the
impression that industry is a safe
position of last resort they can always
fall back on if things sour in their
academic careers and I thought that was
interesting because I thought the I
thought the opposite was also very
commonly true where people might you
know want to avoid industry so they go
and get higher education. So I curious
your you know your thought on this and
what what made you think this
&gt;&gt; really what drove me nuts was there were
just a ton of people who fundamentally
wanted to be professors or postocs and
were in a PhD program and they were like
well if I fail out I'll go into
industry. Um, and this like one is that
you would interact with people during
interviews who like clearly didn't want
to be there. Just like so unambiguously
did not want to be there and clearly
viewed this as like a failure that they
were interviewing. And you're like,
well, that's not really like a positive
sign that we want to hire someone who
like doesn't seem like they're going to
enjoy the job. But in addition, a bunch
of people, and this is what drove me so
insane because I think it like all
parties involved in the academic system
hurt students doing this, is that like
so many people just assumed that when
they finally decided to get an industry
position, it was going to be trivial and
then they didn't find it trivial. I
think a lot of academic people were
like, well, smart people are in academia
and the dumb people are in industry, so
if I need to go compete with the dumb
people, it will be easy. Um, and I think
there was a lot of that. Um but you know
there was a person I mean I give you an
example there was a person who was like
effectively a CS professor who I
interviewed and this person like could
not figure out how to pass values
between the various functions that they
were calling in the interview. Like
literally they were like what I would do
is I would call this function. It would
print out in the ripple and it would
read it as a human and then I would go
like type it into this other piece of
code and I was like oh you are better at
programming than this right because like
you're a professor of computer science
and they're like no no this is how I
work and I was like oh this is not going
to set you up for success if we actually
have to get you writing code and broad
here.
&gt;&gt; I saw a few other popular tweets that
you had. they were about um like
favorite statistics papers and favorite
recommendations of statistical books
that you're saying, "Oh, everyone's got
to read these. How come you have such
strong recommendations on statistical uh
literature?" And then also, what are
those recommendations? I
&gt;&gt; I love statistics and I think I'll never
not love it, but I think it's the
craziest field. And what I mean by crazy
is it's a field that fundamentally sells
people the idea that they can use
statistical methods in real life. But in
reality, what they do is do pure
mathematics and study how statistical
methods work in a idealized theoretical
world. And in pure math, like you know,
as an undergrad, I did pure math and I
loved things like number theory. In pure
math, it's just you're just period. It's
pure. You prove it. It's internally
coherent. There's no attempt to like
reconcile with reality. reality doesn't
even matter. You're just like, there's a
rules. We follow the rules. We're in
this internally consistent system. And
then in super applied fields like
software engineering, you're just like,
well, the thing runs like the code runs.
I I don't know what to tell you. Like, I
can't prove this code runs, but like we
ran it in broad and it had like eight
nines of reliability, which makes it
better than like most of the software
ever written by humans. We're good. Um,
statistics is this super crazy field
where you reason in about mathematics
but then make all these claims about how
it's going to be useful to people in
practice. And this I think is where
opinions come in so strongly is that I
think some people just like are very
very honest and hold themselves to a
super high bar. And some people I think
are super cavalier about stuff and are
like roughly just like well I said it
was true and then you're like well is it
true? And they're like, uh, you're like,
"Let's really dig into the proof." And
they're like, "Fine." You know, one of
their four people I love, love, love
more than anybody is Larry Wasserman.
I've never met the guy. Uh, so I don't
know what he's like as a human, but like
his books are like to me the embodiment
of like hyper intense honesty. He just
seems like a person just like I cannot
tell a lie. And just like therefore like
everything you get from Wasamin is
exactly true. like he tells you exactly
what he's assuming. He tells you exactly
what's imply and he's also extremely
clear about being like I actually don't
claim these other things that you might
want me to claim because they're not
true. Um and I think a ton of statistics
books are not like that. Ton of was like
use our methods they're great. Um and so
I think Wasam is really at the at the
top. Another book that someone
recommended to me sort of halfway
through my career at Meta that I loved.
Um I think it's called something like
introduction to agnostic statistics is a
book by a guy named Peter Erin and he's
I think another person I like who's sort
of just like incredibly concerned with
whether the things he says are true or
false and he's hyper rigorous and hyper
careful. And again I think a lot of
people in statistics are not hyper
rigorous and hyper careful. So, I love
the book and so the recommendations I
gave was like literally anything you can
get by Larry Wasserman. Buy and read. If
you want to learn statistics, like I
don't think any book has ever been
better than the books he's written in my
entire life. I've never seen anything
come close to being as good. The Peter
Arino book I think is probably as good
as like a thing you could be ever read
if you're like a social scientist or
someone working more practically. It's a
little less mathheavy than the Wasman
books. And I think there is a lot of um
value in big technology in understanding
some statistics or doing it rigorously
because I've been in so many AV test
review meetings and I think a lot of
people who kind of just enter the
industry and you know they they see the
UI and they go I got a green bar here
please give me the approval to ship my
my code path. Um but actually if you
kind of dig in, you ask some wise and
you're like wait there was it was red
yesterday why is it you know what's
going on here uh the the understanding
is very superficial and people are just
trying to they're just trying to move
forward whether or not it's actually
statistically you know beneficial across
the user base.
I mean that's a I mean ironically it's a
great example of sort of everything we
talked about today summed up as like a
story I have when we were trying to get
deltoid 3 to ship out you know at that
point deltoid one was still the default
and there was a person who came to us
and this person was actually like
otherwise great and I loved interacting
with them but this interaction was
really I was like this reflects a lot of
cultural pathology of our company where
they're like hey I can't let you ship
delta dirt and I'm like why why can't
why can't we ship it and they're like
our hold out goes from being
statistically significant ificant win
for the company to being not
statistically significant in delta or
dirty and I think it's a regression and
I was like all right it might be a
regression but maybe it's also the truth
they're like I actually don't know which
it is but you guys are going to wait
until the half is over and we've decided
we hit our goal and then you can ship
delt
and I was like oh but wait I was like
your your win is so close to the border
between you did nothing and one that
literally like mild tweaks in our code
have turned it off. It's like I feel
like that's not a win people be so
concerned about and especially this
notion that like you're almost
significant so therefore you failed or
you're just barely not significant you
know you win or fail that I think is
this super dangerous culture. I mean one
of the worst things I ever saw was a
team that I managed to squeeze and one
of the things they told me was they're
like hey you know we have to do this
thing because we made a goal. And I was
like, "Okay, but what are we gonna do
next half?" So they're like, "Oh,
definitely on July 2nd, we're gonna
delete this code." And I was like,
"Wait, then why aren't you shipping it?"
They're like, "Well, because we can't
miss our goals." And I was like, "I feel
like our goals should not be written in
a way where shipping the thing we intend
to delete literally a day later is a
success." And they're like, "Yeah,
that's fair." And I was like, "What do
you mean fair? Come on, man. Like, don't
do this." And initially, you know, I
convinced them not to do it. I was like,
"I'm the manager. I can decide the
ratings. we don't have to just like do
this but people really like firmly
believe this and I think the statistics
thing like the problem is like a lack of
understanding of statistics bleeds into
other weird pathologies of how people
are evaluated and the two together
become like extra dangerous.
&gt;&gt; Coming to end just like a few questions
kind of like reflecting on your career
so far. Do you have a regret that maybe
other people could learn from?
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah. People ask me this so much as
over the years, especially as I became
like a more senior manager and then a
director that I like, you know, have a
keen answer because I've been asked this
a million times. I for like my first
several years had Javi as my skip. Um,
for people who don't know him, he's
currently I think the COO of NetApp, but
you know, he was first the head of
growth and then the head of growth and
adance and then I think now he runs like
roughly 50% of Neta. Um, but like Javi
was my skip and every time my actual
manager, this guy named Danny would be
like, "Jobby wants people to come to his
office hours, no one shows up and he
feels like it's a waste of his time.
Someone should go." And I basically just
was like, "Well, I don't have anything
like actually that valuable to say to
Jav, so I'm just going to waste his time
and I don't want to be the person who
wastes his time." So, I never went. And
I look back and I'm like because
especially as I started running office
hours as I had a large at work where I
couldn't do like one-on- ones with
everyone and had to do office hours and
people wouldn't go and I was like man I
wish people would come to my office
hours and like I Javi was also feeling
this way and he's like man I wish I
would gave anything for one of these
people to show up but like I just never
showed up and I look back and I'm like
first of all this was an amazing
opportunity that I wasted but in
addition it's not just that I wasted it
for myself I also probably just like
made his life worse off by not actually
getting him to be able to take advantage
of this thing he was offering us. And so
I was like this is a decision that
basically harmed both parties that I did
out of fear. Um I'm sure there's
probably a million other examples of me
doing this that are not as clear in my
head, but this is one where like you
know Danny probably came to like our
team once a week and told us to show
sign up and none of us ever did. Um, and
I think of this every time where I'm
like, listen, if like you know something
important about the future of this org
or this team or even if you just like
honestly have any questions at all, if
you have a leader who's showing up and
saying, "I want to hear from you folks,
go." Um, I think especially like if
you're a more junior I see watching
this, like I think it is hard to
understand how painful it is at director
and above to actually know what it's
like on the ground. you're just like so
removed from being an IC3 and IC4
anymore. Just so removed and not just
from their place in life, but also like
what's happening to them, what's true in
the codebase, what the team dynamics
are. You know, like you know, there were
points where I had like a manager
managing managers managing managers, you
know, there's just so much indirection.
I think people way way should more often
if a leader says like please show up and
talk to me, do it. Um the flip side
obviously is like you come and say
something weird, you know, that can be
bad. you know, don't show up and be
like, I want you to tell me how to get
promoted. Uh, it's probably like not
your greatest first conversation, but if
you're like, hey, I think this part of
our or could be better. Could you help
me? Leaders love that. That's what they
want. And like so many people are afraid
to do it. And I think it basically makes
all partieselves.
&gt;&gt; And then last question for you. With all
the experience that you have now, if you
could go back to the beginning of your
career and give yourself some advice,
what would you say?
It's tricky because I think I am a
person with very strong opinions, but I
also think I can be more self-conscious
than I should. And do you think that
like have more confidence that you can
do bigger stuff and that as long as you
hold yourself to a high level
discipline, the bigger stuff is really
possible. I think like when I was
younger, you know, basically at every
step of the way, like from a high school
student to a college student all the
way, I think I tended to way too often
like cast doubt about what I could do.
Um, and I think, you know, that is the
single like biggest set of mistakes I've
made is just this repeated pattern of
like not being ambitious enough or not
believing something was tractable. And I
think I've gotten a lot better. You why
I don't like the defeatism in other
programming language communities. But
like um I do think it for me is like
this thing that sort of I think you know
really could have been better. And I
think it's true for a lot of people. I
think of just a lot of people like they
they overconce themselves of the
greatness of other people and underconce
themselves of how much they can achieve
and that combination means that they
just like way less try to do risky
things than they could have. Um and I
think they like especially I think until
you interacted with enough people who
have succeeded I think it's hard to
realize like how often they're like not
actually doing that much better than
you. They just tried and you didn't try.
Um, so I think that is probably like,
you know, the the biggest thing that if
I could go back and tell like
20-year-old me, um, probably is that.
&gt;&gt; Thank you so much for your time. I I
really appreciate it, John.
&gt;&gt; It's been a real pleasure and thanks for
having me.
&gt;&gt; Thank you for listening to the podcast.
It's a passion project of mine that I've
really enjoyed building. Another passion
project that I've been working on kind
of in secret is building an ergonomic
keyboard that I wish existed, and I
finally have a prototype. So, I'd love
to show you what we've built. It's ultra
lowprofile and ergonomic, and I couldn't
find anything like it on the market, so
that's why we built it. I'll put a link
to the keyboard in the description. You
can take a look and learn more about the
project there. We could definitely use
your support. Also, if you have any
feedback for me about the show, I'd love
to hear it. Comments on YouTube have led
to guests coming on like Ilia Gregoric
and David Fowler. I wasn't aware of them
until someone dropped a comment. Also,
feedback in the comments helped me learn
to reduce the number of cliffhers in the
intros. So, your comments definitely
make a difference. Please keep letting
me know what you'd like to see more of
in the show, and I'll see you in the
next episode.
