原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4-sumlzoJs

Hey guys, uh my name is Lucas Crespon,
the creative director here at Eb. And
this is Daniel, our super talented
design star here at Ebri as well. We
want to talk to you so much about how we
made the landing page for Monologue in
Framer. Monologue is one of our uh
products here at every. It's an AI
detection tool, basically a competitor
to Whisperflow and other uh AI dictation
tools that will remain nameless. From
the very beginning, we really leaned
into visual impact when [music] creating
this brand and and product. Everything
we have done has come uh with the idea
that we really wanted it to [music]
differentiate itself as much as
possible. And so that kind of like
translates itself to the brand and the
choices we made and the web design and
the product and and [music] everything
really. And uh we'll take you guys
through the entire project. Uh so you
can see how it looks like when a
creative director and designer work
together to create something that we get
really really excited about. Um we hope
you like it. Just want to kind of like
show you how we built this entire site
in Framer. And first first of all like
as you can see we're greeted by this
awesome very dynamic hero section that
has embedded in the middle of it our
monophone which is basically the our
star. It's basically the the very uh
main character of the entire monologue
app uh at least on Mac OS. And we
basically wanted to create something
like extremely extremely skeworphic and
kind of like showcasing it at the very
very top of the page makes it really
clear like who we are designing this for
more than anything. So when we really
wanted to create this page, we really
really really wanted to accomplish two
things. Number one, and the most obvious
one is be able to tell the hell out of
the story of monologue and who is it for
and all that sort of stuff. But the
second goal and the main reason why we
made it the way that it looks is because
we really wanted to do differentiate it
from the rest of the minimalist
approaches that other people take when
they make uh landing pages. So um we
really wanted to go uh dark mode when
the rest of our competitors are going
light mode. We really wanted to go more
skumorphic when they're going more
minimalist. We wanted to be more loud
when they're going like quieter. I think
all of that kind of like goes to show
the type of page that we have here in
front of us right now. Framer really
allowed us to iterate extremely quickly
and have the team kind of like reacting
quickly and giving feedback quickly and
all that sort of stuff. So I think maybe
what we can do now Daniel is just maybe
we can go uh part by part of the site
and maybe we can talk briefly really
quick about the about the hero section
and why it looks the way it looks right
now.
Yeah, definitely for the hero section
especially we wanted to make an impact
knowing this was the like a launch uh
for this app. So Malo didn't exist
before and we wanted to make a great
first impression. So basically that was
the intention here. Um, initially I did
it on Figma, but the good thing about
framer is that I it I I translate it
pixel by pixel just as it is and even
better because I can add animations and
on top of it. The intention here uh
Lucas was actually meant for create a
great a first impression here. So using
the assets that we already built on the
product uh we incorporated here and
frame it really easily. We actually have
the wave. Uh we even have some light
light rates effects on the top. If you
zoom out, you can you guys can see
basically like the the madness behind
the method and all the the layers and
everything that goes into making
something like this as well as all the
the animations, etc., etc. And you can
see like all the connectors. And it can
look like a spiderweb to to some, but it
really kind of like goes to show that
like the the canvas kind of like really
lets us, you know, uh move away from
Figma the closer we are to launching and
just kind of like start uh you know, uh
moving faster through through the
designing the page. Another interesting
thing that I want to kind of like point
out, this is one of those things that um
we've been trying to start doing in a
lot of our different apps. So, if you go
to our Spiral app or if you go to like
our Sparkle app or Kora even, you're
going to notice this little stamp in the
landing page, right? And and that's
basically one of the main recurring
things that we use uh through all of our
framework sites for all the the landing
pages of all of our products. It's like
one of those components that we reuse
over and over again. And it's kind of
like our little signature that that we
use as a company uh to let our users
know who's behind each one of our
products. I think something really
interesting to hear that I think it's
super worth talking about is our paper
shader animation. Like how how did we
even make that?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh this paper shader animation was
made on using one of the shaders that we
have uh built on paper. This app that we
have over here, you can actually export
this and translate it really easily
using the workshop of framework. So the
good thing is that you don't you're not
using a ton of bandwidth
uh on your account and it will translate
it really easily on the actual website.
We originally created this in paper but
then like we recorded them exported them
as videos and then like the more traffic
that the page got like basically the
more expensive our website got because
we started getting like a lot of
traffic. So we started like thinking you
know like how maybe a lot of engineers
think which is like how can we optimize
this? How can we make this run better
and be less expensive etc. So just using
the actual paper shaders uh which I
think it's just like react code
basically I think um it it's just like
video is no longer a thing. There's no
media consumption and the bandwidth just
kind of like um disappears really there
and makes it really easier for us to
kind of like continue working here. This
section was really interesting because
we had to work with uh Valerio which is
one of the best animators in the game
right now for anybody looking for sick
motion design. Uh Valerio basically made
this uh Rive animation here um that
helps tell a little bit more of the
story around monologue. We have this
animation that basically explains
all the three features that are included
on the dictionary thing in the mark. And
basically the best way to do it is just
create a RI animation.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think it's basically we wanted
to use RI because we needed the
animation to be interactive, right? So
we couldn't uh do that with an MP4 or
with a LOI file in and it of itself. So
um Valeria really helped us do it this
way. And then I wanted to uh I think
it'd be a good idea to showcase how how
it how responsive this is, right? Yeah.
Different break points and the idea is
that you have it
change it depending of the break point
you're in and on
I think
right now mobile should look like
&gt;&gt; like this.
we are able to just kind of like have
the same animation but completely
constructed for different break points
and just kind of like have it adapted
that way in a way that like looks a
little bit uh more specific to the
actual intention of of the screen size
in it of itself and it has like a nice
[clears throat] little loading indicator
that auto rotates between each section
and and each other which I think it's
pretty sick. Um, I think something uh
really cool also about this page in
general are all the textures and all the
shadows and all the depth that we kind
of like if you keep scrolling down for
example. Yeah. Like let maybe let's talk
a little bit about like how do we get
the feeling of the app into the website?
Because the app obviously it's like this
very skumorphic thing that feels very
physical that feels like you can touch
it that has like depth and volume to it
and obviously like we wanted the website
to feel very connected to it cuz we
really think uh product and brand are
sort of like extremely linked and almost
like one in the same. The way we did it
is uh we know we know that Mo has like
physical devices on a digital world. So
the way we make this to look like a
little more real is just by adding
textures and make it more escamorphic.
The uh the more we can the better. So
basically um what we did here I have
like a like a texture all over the whole
page and basically add some noise
through the whole page. I have like this
noise on top of all the website. So
basically this is all over the place and
this gives this I don't know like you
can even you can touch it you know that
that's the feeling that we we're looking
for and because we have like this
recorders voice recorders and it makes
sense in the whole branding to have uh
this type of you know texture and depth
on everything we do. I'm also super
excited about how the footer looks like
just because I think like um a lot of
people usually use the footer maybe just
as a like a like a site map type of
thing, right? Like a lot of people like
frontload their their footer with a
bunch of links, a bunch of stuff to kind
of like help you navigate. But for us,
it was more like a like a final CTA,
right? Like for us, we wanted to kind of
like really really make it clear that
like monologue isn't a completely
different animal. It's a completely
different beast. And with having just
like a really big uh the really big
typography, the really big device in the
middle with the with the wave and just
like the really really bright download
for Mac uh button right there. I think
like it just kind of like connects it
and brings it full circle from the very
top at the beginning of the site. So it
has like a very type of uh continual
type of experience I would say and uh
and I think like even the coolest part
to me and maybe we can Oh yeah yeah yeah
like the page is just full of like tiny
Easter eggs right that's a good thing
about framework that you can add hover
effects light effects on you know little
things and even adding just animations
on all over the the whole site is really
really easy
&gt;&gt; you just have to watch like 2 made a
video on on on YouTube and that'll be
&gt;&gt; nice. Nice. I think I think also uh
what's really different and and
interesting is that our main CTAs for
download for Mac are not like a normal
button, but it's like a button in the
device. It's like it's actually as if
you were pressing the actual product
that you're going to be able to use. So,
it's kind of like giving users like a
little bit of a sneak peek or a little
bit of a taste of like what they're
going to what they're going to get, you
know, and that's like the actual
product. I think my per my favorite part
is actually the above the fold and this
section about the notes which is
actually the the new feature we launch
uh and I don't know basically I love
this speaker that I did here and you
know it's so simple just to add like
shadows and and a light effect so it
actually feels like this is part of the
product so somehow I like this I don't
know because I'm biased because I just
did it. That was the last section I I I
built. But I actually love the the hero
section a lot because it creates the
good impression as I said before and you
know it was even promoted in the sites
like Moin and even Landbook and these
other websites. I think also the other
cool thing to to mention obviously is
that like this whole site was made for
uh when we launched the Mac OS app but
then obviously very rapidly our team uh
shipped the iOS app. So we wanted to be
able to kind of like create its own
section it its own like little banner to
kind of like connect it. Initially we
had only the Mac OS app as Lucas said
and
uh we found into a problem where the
good thing is that we were doing this
all in framer. So it was really easy
just to add this little Easter eggs just
to promote real quick uh the iOS app on
top of it. Quick question about this uh
this section of the the iOS section. the
little holes or circles that are um that
are part of the like the speakers, let's
say. Um are those currently PGs or are
those actual vectors?
&gt;&gt; Actual vectors. The good thing is this I
built it on the product. So it was just
so simple just to copy what I did. So I
added some inner shadows and actually
even in make it even more realistic with
adding another shadow up to it. And you
know,
&gt;&gt; hey, you can always make it more
realistic, right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Always. There's always a way
to make it even better. So, yeah. Uh, I
was just following that and that's the
same way I did the ones on the product.
So,
&gt;&gt; yeah, exactly. Like the product, the
site, everything is sort of like one in
the same. And I think like that's kind
of like the coolest part of it that you
don't really have to make let's say like
a super traditional website that it's
easy you know you can like really do
something hard which I think it's like
the the cool thing about framer that you
can like try to be a little bit more
ambitious and and you know play have a
little bit more fun with how things look
etc. you know,
&gt;&gt; combining components, shaders, and uh
and animations in Frame, anything is
possible in my opinion. And I'm super
fast at Framer. I think like to to be
honest I think like this is probably one
of the most polished sites that we have
ever launched like from every obviously
like we're always trying to to to beat
our own bar that we set for ourselves
but um the fact that like this site has
appeared in in mobin as like a like a
design reference and the website starts
appearing in like different uh like
taste or design publications or whatever
just really goes to show how like
designing
with difference as being like the main
main main thing that we want to achieve
like really goes to show how like you
can just get traffic from having like a
beautiful experience you know.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That that was uh even
the intention I remember like hey we
want to make this look super cool. I
remember speaking to you
&gt;&gt; and that was like one of the goals like
hey how do we make this cool? So, I
think Framer was like u our go to a
go-to for this. So, yeah. I
&gt;&gt; awesome. Well, Daniel, thank you so much
for sharing for a second. I really
appreciate you and I'll see you later in
Slack.
&gt;&gt; See you, man.
