原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4EsUaur0nsQ

The equation I think for starting a
robotic business has changed and will
continue to change at an accelerating
pace because the upfront cost is not
that high anymore.
&gt;&gt; Everyone's sort of spending a lot of
time in the digital world and it feels
like you know now is the time to start
thinking about the world of atoms.
&gt;&gt; You literally just gave people the
playbook for how to build a vertical
robotics company. This has really been
our mission from the start is to create
that Cumbrian explosion.
&gt;&gt; It still like blows my mind. I didn't
know if this would exist even in my
entire lifetime.
Welcome back to another episode of the
light cone. Today we have a very special
guest, Quan Vang. He's one of the
co-founders of physical intelligence,
which we think might be the robotics AI
lab that brings about the GPT1 moment
for all of robotics. Kuang, thank you
for joining us.
&gt;&gt; Pleasure to be here. Has been a longtime
admirer of YC and our mission is to
build a model that can control any robot
to do any task that is physically
capable of and to do so at such a high
level of performance that's going to be
useful to people in all walks of life.
And so GPT1 for robotics you know what
is it you know is the chat GBT moment
for robotic real our perspective here is
that um we want to build a model that's
really intelligence we want to build a
platform that allow us to externalize
that intelligence to the rest of world
and allow them to use it to build very
interesting application in all sorts of
vertical and robotics and we think that
it's going to be more like a peeling an
onions analogy where you start from a
really strong base model that have all
sorts of common sense knowledge and
already works to some extent on your
robot. Um you have then a mixed autonomy
system uh very similar for example to a
autonomous driving car today. Um and
then you actually deploy that system to
do a real job. That system might make
mistake um it's okay. Um and then over
time by actually exposing the system to
the complexity and the edge case of the
real world that system get incrementally
even just slightly better over time
every day. Um and you know one day you
wake up and you certainly have a system
that is just fully autonomous and just
provide tremendous value.
&gt;&gt; Might be helpful to give the audience a
bit of a mini history lesson on why
robotics is so hard. And there's been a
lot of breakthroughs in the last two
years. And I mean just to simplify the
robotics problem is three pillars.
Semantics which I think we got a lot of
unlocks and with language models that
somehow we ported into robotics. Then
you have the planning and then the last
thing is control which needs to be done
in real time and interact with a
environment that changes. walk us
through the seinal papers that a lot of
the team of PI robotics published that
gave you the inkling that the GPT one
moment is near and that started in 2024.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So the dream to build general
purpose robot like robots has been a
longtime dream I think in humanity like
you know we're not the first to say that
our mission is to build a model that can
work on any robot. Um and we're really
fortunate to be in this moment in time
in history where we feel that it's
possible to kind of walk back a little
bit um a few years before there was I
think the first is Seikhan which to me
was the first demonstration of language
model and how you can bring all of the
common sense knowledge in language model
into robotics and therefore that
significantly kind of reduces the need
to collect robot specific data. So for
example, if you have a task of oh I want
to go to the YC office to record a
podcast you know what are the step I
need to take you can ask a language
model you know just show me the step and
show me the plan um and that work
incredibly well um and then the way kind
of language model infiltrate if you will
in robotic is it start at the planning
level uh at the semantic level and then
but there's still the control problem
you know at the end of the day you still
need a mechanism to convert the plan
into low-level action that can actually
actuate the robot And that bring us to
POM E and that bring us to RT2 which
stand for robotic transformer 2. And
what this two work really show is that
if you start from a vision language
model that is really powerful and you
kind of use robotic data to adapt this
model to speak robot language if you
will. um then you see a lot of transfer
from the kind of knowledge that exists
in the language in the vision language
model down to the low-level action like
um one of my favorite example when we
did the RT2 project was you can have
picture of celebrity on the table you
have a picture of Taylor Swift you have
a picture of the queen of England and
you can ask the robot you know pick up
the coke can and move it to Taylor Swift
even though the concept of Taylor Swift
it just doesn't exist in the robot data
at all and that work. You can do other
examples such as um kind of spatial
reasoning that doesn't exist in the
robot data at all. Like for example,
move the dinosaurs next to the like red
car and these are always just completely
unseen object in robot data. And so that
was RT2 and that was palm E. Now RT2 and
POM E are single embodiment um exercise.
&gt;&gt; Just for the audience, single embodiment
meaning it worked for a very specific
robot. It worked for a very specific
robot. In robotic, you can ask the
question, how do you scale? Um,
especially how do you scale data
collections? And one of the insight that
we had back then was, you know, maybe
the data from one robot is not that
different from another robots. Anyway,
if you have enough robots in your
training data, maybe what the model
learned isn't to control one specific
robot. what the model learned is
something that's more abstract which is
how do I kind of learn a general notion
of what it means to control any
particular robotic platform and
therefore I will be better at
controlling any particular platform and
that bring us to what we call uh open
cross embodiment and robotic transformer
X that was a big paper because it was
the first that showed potential scaling
laws that apply to robotics because now
you could start training all these
models across multiple kinds of
hardware, not just one, which has never
been done in robotics ever before.
Because from all the research labs, they
would all train with a very specific set
of sensor actuators and motors and it
was all very finicky with that
particular hardware, right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. One of the really interesting
result from um open cross embodiment and
let me provide the context here is that
you can take let's say 10 different
robot platform collect data from them
train a policy and really optimize the
policy to work well on that platform. Um
so let's say you know you have that you
have 10 different platform 10 different
policies and now if you simply take the
data and absorb it into a model that is
high capacity enough to really absorb
that data and you can compare you have
this generalist right that learn to
control how to the 10 different robot
you can compare it to the specialist
that has been optimized to work well on
a particular embodiment how does it
compare and the interesting result from
open x is it was 50% better
&gt;&gt; wow Um, and that was really surprising
because in robotic it's hard enough to
get your model to work on one particular
robot platform. And one of the reason
why I say that we're really fortunate to
be in this moment in time in robotic is
because OpenX was really only possible
because of the support that we received
from the robotic community. It was a
huge collaboration across the robotic
community. And the the reason why that's
really important is there is this joke
in like robotic grad school that you
know if you want to add two years to
your PhD just work on a new robot
platform.
&gt;&gt; You know by that logic if you want to
have 10 robot platform that's 20 years
like
&gt;&gt; why is that it takes like a year or two
to just get the platform um up and
running to even collect the data.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Is it fair to say that the data
set that was created from embodiment X
is similar to the scale of an impact
that imageet did for vision because it
was huge and it was the first large data
set across multiple hardware huge
collaboration and
&gt;&gt; I still think that imageet was more
impactful in the vision community and
the reason for that is um a few the
first is that imageet also allowed for
reproducible evaluation right um you
OpenX as an effort was more about making
data available for kind of people to use
and evaluation is a really difficult
problems um in robotic that open X did
not solve. Um and the second is I think
open X is a drop in the bucket at this
point in the robotic community. Um if
you measure in the kind of the scale and
the volume and the diversity of data
that the community is collecting, I
think open at this point is a drop in
the bucket. I mean, I guess we started
talking about sort of GP1, but even GP1,
you know, that was sort of this moment
where you can prove, you know, Alec
Radford figured out that there was a
neuron based on a very specific input
and output. Um, and then that allowed
the scaling laws to sort of take hold.
The biggest problem in robotics I've
heard is basically actually exactly what
we've been talking about is like it's
the data problem. you know, language you
could bootstrap off of like, you know,
the sum total of what you could get off
the internet, which is actually quite a
lot. Can you give us like a sense for um
like scale? Is it like pabytes? Like,
you know, what do you think is necessary
as an input to you know the true GPT1 of
robotics?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, the data scarity problem in
robotic there's a few way to look at it.
The first way is that it's really two
problem in this guys. There is the
generation data generation problem and
there's data capture problem and the
difference is that the data capture is
that there might already be lots of
robotic data that is being generated but
there's just never been really an
incentive to capture it to make it easy
for digestions in training. Um and
that's one of the goal that OpenX was
trying to solve which is if you have
robotic data it's a really good idea to
capture it and make it possible to train
on. The second way to look at it is that
robotic is very different from language
model. There is not a internet of
robotic data that you can use. And so
you see this kind of very operationally
heavy effort to collect data. And
there's the question is it going to
scale? Well, the way that I look at it
is let's take the US GDP$ 24 trillion
US. Let's say if we actually solve
robotics a model that can control any
robot to do any task napkin math maybe
contribute 10% to US GDP well that's
already a massive number um and I I
think that promise is one of the reason
that warrants the investment into data
collections um in robotics and the third
way to look at it is we're very focused
on cross embodiment and cross embodiment
there is the data collection aspect of
as well which is to really make sure
that your model and your organizations
and infrastructure are set up to consume
data from many different sources of uh
of robots and that actually allow you to
scale easier. For example, I if I were
to contrast our approach compared to
let's say a company that have a
particular hardware platform that they
optimize for and they scale um it it's
not an approach that have really allowed
people to scale. um because it's just
much harder to figure out how do you
manufacture like a thousand unit of
something for now compared to making
sure that you yourself are ready to
absorb data from like a thousand
different types of robot that are
already in there in the community.
&gt;&gt; I mean it's a crazy problem isn't it? I
mean the hardware itself even within the
same design of embodiment if there's a
hardware run that goes ary or like one
of the servos is slightly different like
you see it in the data right and then
how do you control for that
&gt;&gt; yeah so I think we were doing kind of
like a inventory of robot in the company
we were so shocked to find that there
are no robot no two robot platform that
are the same and if you ask people in
the royal committee sometime there's
debate about multi-root versus single
robot and And the argument is that you
know single robot is simpler to scale.
And actually that's not how it plays out
in practice. Like how it plays out in
practice is even if you have a single
robot that you're optimizing for over
time that platform is going to drift.
You know maybe you want to make hardware
change or you have software change you
end up in a situation where it's much
harder for you to reuse old data because
you know in machine learning if you want
to generalize from a distribution you
would like many sample from that
distribution and if you just have one
robot platform that have a major change
every 3 months maybe you have a few data
point from that distribution. Um whereas
if you start from the hypothesis that if
you have many robot platform in your
fleet your model is going to learn
something more abstract which is how do
I control a robot not any particular
robot then the model will be able to
ingest data from you know a slightly
different robot better.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And actually we're starting to see
immersion property in this kind of robot
large prodation model. That's good news
&gt;&gt; we're doing where you start to see like
interesting transfer be between
different um data sources for example
today it's possible to perform tasks
zero shot zero shot meaning you don't
collect any data and these are the tasks
that last year might have required like
hundreds and hundreds of hours
&gt;&gt; what are some examples
&gt;&gt; yeah do we have any videos we can see
that like show
&gt;&gt; so you know um I get might get some flak
when I come back because this is not
published result hopefully this will
come out soon um so you know I want to
reserve the excitement for that I'm kind
of like building up the the the the
excitement a little bit. Um so hopefully
this will come out soon. These are not
simple tasks. These are like actually
difficult task that just last year
require like hundreds of hours of data
collections.
&gt;&gt; You hear hear on Ly cone first that
there's some emergent properties that
are going to come out of PI.
&gt;&gt; Can you give us a sense of like the
flavor of the tasks?
&gt;&gt; It's really easy to fool yourself and so
we wanted to test across like few
different tasks of different flavor. a
task that require precision, task that
require reasoning with multiple objects
in the scene, it all seems to have this
property. Um, that's really nice. So, it
it does seems like that's something
that's kind of a more general property
that emerged rather than we just, you
know, got lucky and suddenly the model
start working on one particular test.
&gt;&gt; Could you help us understand where we
are now in terms of like what's working
and how well it's working? Like we're
not quite at the chat GBT moment yet.
Like where are we? And I think you
brought some videos that you were going
to show us to like help everybody
visualize what the current
state-of-the-art actually looks like.
&gt;&gt; I think where we are is I think if you
have a task where it's okay for the
robot to make a mistake um and it's
possible for you to set up a mix
autonomy system where you have a person
that takes over when the robot make a
mistake and provide corrections. it is
possible to get to a level of
performance where it start to make sense
to think about scaling robot deployment
and the example that I specifically want
to highlight here is this blog post that
we did with weave and ultra and you know
it's great that these are al both YC
company I want to provide a little bit
of context here first the the context is
that PI is a primarily research
organization we want to focus on
building the best model Um but we also
want to not be tunnel vision. We want to
make sure that the model that we built
actually going to be useful and actually
perform tasks that people in society
cares about. And one of the really good
way for us to do so is to partner really
closely with company that want to get
robot out there today. And the way that
these relationship work is that we treat
each other like we're on the same team
very free flow of information. Um and we
designed a system that try to get the
best possible performance for the task
that these company care about. So let me
talk about we fuss. What you're seeing
in this video is a system that we built
together folding really diverse item of
laundry in a real laundromat. In the
mission you can see you know people
walking outside and why this task is
difficult is because there's just
infinite possibility of observation
space like you know um clothing are
deformable and no two item of clothing
here are the same and these are also
unseen you know these are not like
clothing item that are seen in the
training data.
&gt;&gt; Yeah I love this team they are some of
the most cracked people out of Apple
I've ever met. Gary was the partner for
weave. Maybe I want to like explain like
what weave is and what their like what
their like company is.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean they're actually you know
shipping their first robots into the
home. Uh we sort of talked about it as
you know being able to do household
tasks like this and I think they were
very inspired by physical intelligence's
first demos with um with laundry
folding. So it's actually a total trip
to hear about it. you know a bit a year
ago we were talking about them doing it
and then now to see them do it working
in hand handin-hand with you is really
awesome. I think this is a great example
of like you know you need the model
smarts you need the data collection and
then the hardware and um the sort of
system integration all working together
is just hard to nail. So
&gt;&gt; yeah, and to get back to your question
about why robotic is hard, it's really
it's it is a really hard system
problems. Um like you need everything to
work well and work well together to get
this result. And like we've is such an
incredible team for us to to work with
to to get this result. And it actually
didn't even take us that long to get
this result. It was roughly well we set
a goal and maybe it was like two weeks
afterwards where we got got a model that
was got a model and a system that was
good enough at performing this task. It
still like blows my mind to see a robot
actually folding laundry because I
remember until basically until chat GPT
I didn't know if this would exist even
in my entire lifetime because like
folding laundry I mean it's it's always
been like the Turing test for robotics
because there's no way to like
deterministically program a system the
way that you did like preAI to do this
because the space is like so infinite
and like we've shown that it's possible
for us to do like basically everyone can
do this like robots will be able to do
everything it's only a matter of like
improving it from here. There was a
funny story where um when we first
published Pi Zero, people thought of us
as the laundry company because the demo
was just focused on laundry and actually
picking home task, especially task that
has to do with deformable object. It's a
very intentional choice on our end.
We're not just after the home. We really
want to make it broadly applicable. But
picking home task for us to start with
has a few benefits like one is
relatable. you know, you can see the
laundry folding demo and you can kind of
like grock how this is going to be
useful and you can get a sense of why
it's hard. And the second is that it's
really easy to set up to test
generalization.
&gt;&gt; You can talk about uh Ultra, which is
your company, Jared, a demo of it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, this is Ultra. The thing that I
love about this video is you see, you
know, it's bright outside and you see
this is 4x speed and it's 100 minutes.
If I scroll to the end, the sun has set.
&gt;&gt; Oh, wow. Ah,
&gt;&gt; that was one of the big problems in
robotics where it would be so sensitive
to the environment in lighting and mess
up the vision system, the semantics and
part of it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And the interesting uh thing here
is that it is possible to get to the
level of autonomy that the robot is just
performing the task. This is autonomy at
scale. Like this is ready to be scaled.
Quan, because this task is less familiar
than laundry folding, do you want to
explain what the robot is doing here and
what Ultra is like doing as a company?
&gt;&gt; Ultra is a company that want to makes it
really easy to adapt robot to, you know,
new task. Um and right now they're
focusing on logistic space which is
really important because you know
there's lots of labor shortage in
logistic and the task that we focus on
together here is you know if you order
an item from Amazon you sometime get
this soft pouch that item get shipped
from and the task here is you have a
tray of these items here and the robot
is supposed to pick one of them at a
time and place it inside this pouch. The
machine would then close it and then
pick up the pouch and put it um on the
left here to be ready for shipping. Now,
this heart is hard because there are
many different types of object that can
be in this tray. And the opening here is
actually very narrow. So, you see this
interesting example of the robot kind of
nudging the item to go into the pouch.
And that's that's really hard. like that
require very good understanding of the
scene and like very precise motion to
nudge the object into the pouch. Um the
other thing that's hard about this task
is the level of autonomy that's required
like this is running for an entire day.
There is still human intervention I want
to say in um this like full day
operation. Um but the level of
intervention is actually quite minimal.
This is not just like some like demo
station, right? This is actually
recorded in an actual e-commerce
warehouse where they're actually
shipping real products to real
customers. This isn't just like a like a
lab.
&gt;&gt; This is packaging real customer uh real
order for customer to be shipped out in
a real warehouse. So, this is real
operations.
&gt;&gt; So, I think this is really cool because
I I think when people think about
robots, they tend to think of the
consumer use cases like weave because
that's, you know, what we're familiar
with in our daily life. What I find
really interesting is that there's like
a million applications like this ultra
thing that you wouldn't think of as
obviously like oh who packs the like
soft pouch of things that you get from
like Amazon. Well, there's some person
like who does that and this is like a
job that we can now build a robot to do.
The interesting thing about the approach
is that you're converting it from a very
difficult engineering problem into a
operation problems of how do I identify
the use case and how do I collect the
right data which is in some sense more
scalable because you can build the
system that allow you to collect data
for many different tasks. So you know
it's now a problem of how do I scale
data collection rather than you know for
every new task how do I design a really
difficult engineering system to solve
it. YC Starter School is back. We're
hand selecting the most promising
builders in the world and flying them
out to San Francisco for July 25th and
26th to discuss the cutting edge of
tech. Apply now for a spot. Okay, back
to the video. I think one thing that the
audience may not know is that you have a
very unique technical insight that in
the past robotics folks would have kind
of gasp and be shocked because robots
need to run in real time. A lot of times
all of the compute runs in on device but
you guys have done something very
different. Can you tell us more about
that so that this works in in in real
time with large models and and really
well?
&gt;&gt; So the context here is that you know we
talked to many companies that would like
to deploy robots and one of the first
question we get is what compute unit
should we get on the robot? You know
it's expensive it's going to increase
the bomb cost and they're worried that
it's going to go out in fashion very
quickly because the model change the
model gets bigger. How do I make sure
that the hardware that I'm going to
commit to today is going to be viable
for you know a couple of years? It's a
very difficult questions. People often
really surprise when I tell them that
almost all of the robot evaluation that
we run at PI today including the really
complicated demo that we have shown
making coffee folding laundry mobile
robots navigating around the model
actually hosted in the cloud. Um and you
know this is not like a cloud isn't a
server in the office. It's a real cloud.
The model is hosted in a data center
somewhere and within this high frequency
control loop that um is controlling the
robot. The robot is actually querying an
API endpoint that hosts the model
sending it images and language command
and getting back action that then
execute it directly on the robot. And
this is surprising because of precisely
the reason that you mentioned you know
how do you actually make it work? This
is why it's really important for pi to
couple
system hardware and model development
and research like very tightly to
together because like it allow us to
solve for this problem. So for example,
one of the insight that we have here is
that you can actually bury the inference
time within the robot control loop
because you know if I'm a robot, I have
enough action for me to execute for the
next 100 millconds. Like there's no
reason for me to wait until I finish
executing that action to ask my model
for a different action. You know, I can
do it as fast as um inference
essentially. Um, and so you know maybe
when I only have 50 milliseconds of
action worth left I can ask for the next
sets of action and when the current 50
millisecond is over like I have
something that's ready for me to
continue with you know my next 100
milliseconds. Um so that's one of the
inside. The other uh kind of algorithmic
improvement um we we refer to them as
real-time chunking design inference in
such a way that you know there's going
to be a delay in how long it takes to
query the model on the cloud. Basically
like the problem here if I get uh a
little bit more technical is an action
chunk is a sequence of action that I can
execute on the robot. So you know it's
not just one action. And if I have an
action chunk that I can execute for 100
millisecond and 50 milliseconds in I
want to predict another action chunk and
I'm going to transition to that new
action chunk after my current 50
millisecond is over. How do I make sure
the two are consistent? Like you know
how do I make sure that if I'm moving
this way the next action chunk is going
to continue me to allow me to continue
to be smoothly moving this way.
&gt;&gt; You can premputee. Yeah, you can premp
compute and like that's one of the
algorithmic improvement that we've made
to make inference using model hosted in
the cloud possible.
&gt;&gt; I studied computer engineering so I'm
not really an algorithms person but when
it comes to systems like that like
pipelining like get me all over that.
That sounds great. That's so
interesting.
&gt;&gt; I mean this simplifies it's kind of it's
a brilliant choice because it simplifies
so much of the system for the robots.
You don't need all these clunky I don't
know people have two operating systems
at sometimes for for robots embedded
arts and then the regular one and all
these complex giant compute and power
and this is what the initial versions of
Whimo used to run basically a server on
the trunk and you can't afford to do
that with general day robotics which is
brilliant that you figure out how to do
it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, you don't have to. I mean you can
do things some of it there obviously has
to be some compute there but a lot of
the compute can happen elsewhere and
then is there there must be a video like
this this thing that we're looking at in
the top left like how much of that is
sort of like video feed back how much of
it is like local processed I mean
&gt;&gt; is there any compute locally on this
robot or is it just like a dumb like
video camera that streams data to the
cloud
&gt;&gt; for this I am not 100% sure but I am
inclined to believe that it's just a
dumb computer. Like for this specific
video, um I don't remember, but I'm just
100% confident that we can make this
work with a dumb computer and the robot.
And the one other interesting thing
about our collaboration with Weven Ultra
is one, I've never seen the robot in
person.
&gt;&gt; Oh wow.
&gt;&gt; Um two is I have very little idea about
how the robot actually works.
&gt;&gt; Interesting.
&gt;&gt; Um and that's a very intentional choice.
Like I want to stay away from from that
as far as possible. I also don't know
how they collect data like I
intentionally don't ask them this
question to understand whether it's
possible for an organization like PI to
parachute into their existing system and
to work really closely with them on the
thing that actually matters to get the
system to work and not have to learn
about how they've set up their system
because in a way that's like a more
scalable recipe. Yeah, you completely
decouple a lot of the hardware control
loop choices from the from the semantics
and planning which is just works which
is brilliant. Yeah, it I mean I'm really
surprised that it works and when when we
started the company, we thought that
real deployment is going to be a is only
going to be in the conversation like 5
years um into the life of the company
cuz the problem is really hard and
&gt;&gt; we're two years in and you know this is
the result that we we have and and real
like deployment and scaling the number
of robot is a really serious
consideration today and so the pace of
progress has just been very pleasantly
much faster than we expected.
Originally,
&gt;&gt; often on this podcast, we talk about
like what all this means for startup
founders. I I think that might be an
interesting question for us to explore
here. So, if you imagine someone was
listening to this podcast, maybe they're
like a college student that's studying
computer science and they think robots
are really cool and they want to do
something like this, how should they get
started and what are the skills that
they need? Do they need to be a
mechanical engineer to be able to build
a robot like this? Can they just buy an
off-the-shelf like robot arm and camera
system and like what
&gt;&gt; and load pie and load piec
more context. The first is that robotic
is traditionally really hard because
it's an extremely vertically integrated
business. You need to have your own
customer relationship, your own
hardware, your autonomy stack, your own
safety certification, your own
everything. And the barrier to entry is
just really high because of that. And
one of the thing that we're trying to
change is that we're trying to provide a
foundation of physical intelligence that
the community can build on top of that
allow them to onboard autonomy onto
their robot and their task much quicker
than before. So that's the first you
know we want to provide that kind of
seat of intelligence that allow people
to move much faster so that they can you
know focus on other problems. Um the
second thing is that
the I think the recipe for starting a
vertical robotic business today is one
have a really good understanding of the
existing workflow because the robotic
system needs to fit into existing
workflow and the second is to be very
meticulous about identifying where the
opportunity is. you know, if there's a
workflow that need X number of work
today, you know, where is the robot when
you insert it? It's going to make the
biggest difference. And two is to really
be scrappy when it comes to hardware and
data collections. You don't need a
incredibly expensive robot that is
capable of very precise motion today to
be able to do this task. And the reason
why is this why is this model are really
reactive and so they can compensate for
some of the inaccuracy in the actual
robot movement and to ensure that you
have the ability to collect data and to
run evaluation especially evaluation in
real deployment. The next step after
that is to get a mixed autonomy system
that allow you to get to the point where
it's break even
&gt;&gt; like break even economically.
&gt;&gt; Break even economically because the
reason why that's important is because
it allow you to then scale the number of
robot
&gt;&gt; because if you lose money in every robot
it's very hard to scale.
&gt;&gt; That has been historically one of the
biggest challenges for robotic companies
that they go into growth stage. It's
just the payback c period is just
doesn't make sense.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So the equation I think for
starting a robotic business um has
changed and will continue to change at
an accelerating pace because the upfront
cost is not that high anymore. And now
you know what is the upfront cost? The
upfront cost is
much cheaper hardware, ability to
collect data, ability to collect um
evaluation
and ability to kind of like understand
the use case to see where they should
insert the robot. you know, it's not
about having incredibly expensive
hardware. It's not about having your own
proprietary, I think, autonomy classical
uh stack anymore to be able to do this
task. Um, and so it it allow company to
focus on the component that will
actually allow them to differentiate
themselves from the rest of the space.
Now that you've sort of unbundled it and
you no longer need to build this fully
vertically integrated company in order
to build a robotics company, are we on
the precipice of a Cambrian explosion of
vertical robotics companies where
there's going to be like a thousand
companies like Ultra going after, you
know, every like menial job in the
economy and like getting a deep
understanding of the customer, building
a robot that can solve that problem,
doing a like mixed human machine
deployment until it like can run fully
autonomously and building a company in
in every sector. Is that is is that the
future that you see people building on
top of pi?
&gt;&gt; It's funny that you mentioned Cumbrian
explosion because when we wrote this
blog post there was that term that was
very kind of like hotly debated. We are
I think academics at heart and we want
to be kind of very measure when we
communicate but you know myself
personally I believe there's going to be
a Cambrian explosions of um robotic
company across the entire world and
across many many different vertical um
just because it's just so much cheaper
to build and it doesn't require um you
know someone with 20 years of experience
in robotic to start anymore you know it
require someone that is really scrappy
that can move really quickly um can do
the system integration um can understand
customer what they want to start the
deployment
&gt;&gt; I mean what's coming up for me is
obviously we work with a lot of robotics
companies and meet a lot of founders and
it feels like there's this continuum um
one is to use an analogy to you know
personal computing you could argue that
industrial robotics today is basically
like mainframe or uh minicomp computer
level like you know if you look back in
the 70s huge public companies like
digital computer that you know just did
like these sort of very very expensive
deployments but like they were very very
specialized and it was all extreme
enterprise like you know the idea of a
personal computer was ridiculous right
you know it took the altar and then
Apple 1 and Apple 2 and then IBM PCXT to
like create personal computing and then
like the traditional advice for robotics
for many years is like go after like
dirty and dangerous. And then of course
those are sort of the industrial cases
like you you know you have these giant
Tesla robots in the Gigafactory and
things like that. It feels like what you
said around profitability is really
really big. So, you know, does that mean
that the people who do the vertical
robot cambrian explosion sort of moment
uh the people who are sort of first in
that like it sounds like they would be
the first to be profitable and not dirty
and dangerous?
&gt;&gt; I think this is already happening today.
I think um we have the fortune of having
lots of visibility into the robotic
community because um you know people
would like to talk to us, people would
like to learn you know what it's like to
build a foundation model for robotic and
people would like to know how do I get
the same level of autonomy and there are
so many companies and businesses that we
talk to that would love to put the robot
into that space that you know it's okay
for the robot to make a mistake and they
just need it so much. I really believe
that the recipe that I mentioned earlier
of identify where the robot can fit in,
focus on cheaper hardware, collect data,
run evaluation, mix autonomy, break
even, scale robots will work across many
different vertical and I'm I'm seeing it
play out today and it's just incredibly
exciting to see.
&gt;&gt; And this is pretty cool that you
literally just gave people the playbook
for how to build a vertical robotics
company. like this is a playbook that
could possibly be followed successfully
hundreds or thousands of times.
&gt;&gt; And the reason why I want to mention it
is because I I do want to see that
Cambrian Cambrian explosions and we want
to help enable it. You know, for pi if
if we talk about why pi is going to
fail, it's probably going to be because
the problem is just way too hard. You
know, maybe it take 50 more years to
solve the robotic problem and you know,
not couple of years, five, 10. Um and so
we want to enable the community. We want
to accelerate progress. And that's why
we're very open like we publish our
research. We open source PI 0 and PIO5.
And people also shock when they asked me
you know is there any difference between
PI 0 and PI5 that you open source versus
the model that we use internally PI 0
and PIO5. And the answer was actually
no. It's the same model. like the
&gt;&gt; pre-trained model weights that you're
using that we open source is also the
pre-trained model weights that our
researcher internally use for PI 0 and
PIO5 and so we really want to help
accelerate progress in the community um
and to create that Cambrian explosions.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's very inspiring. I mean, I
feel like that's uh everyone's sort of
spending a lot of time in the digital
world and it feels like, you know, now
is the time to start thinking about, you
know, the the world of atoms and uh this
is sort of the perfect mix of actually
like, you know, how do you take
electrons and turn it into abundance in
the, you know, Adam's world and I think
about Dario Amade's essay um all watched
over by machines of loving grace. And
when you really think about the perfect
manifestation of that, it's not like,
you know, perfect uh agents that look
over you just like in the electronic
world. It's, you know, actually
something a little bit more akin to what
we're seeing here.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And this has really been our
mission from the start is to create that
Cambrian explosion. Um and you know this
is why we choose to focus on the model
because we believe that is the borrow
neck to just really make robot useful
across many different different tasks in
the world and that's why we also focus
on cross embodiment. You know success
for us is not defined as only our model
on a robot performing task that is
useful. The the surface area for success
is actually much larger which is our
model performing really useful tasks on
somebody else robot out there. maybe
that we don't even know what that robot
is like in a way that's like useful to
the end consumer.
&gt;&gt; Could we maybe talk a little bit about
um like the humans behind the robots
here? Like um how did the company get
started? Like who are the who are your
co-founders? How do you all get together
and what skills you each bring to such a
complex problem?
&gt;&gt; Sometimes the joke I make here is that
the human behind the robots are also
robots. Not really. Um yeah, so Pi is a
very I would say untraditional company.
We have a like larger than average
founding teams and some of us work
really closely together when we were at
the robotic team at Google. And the
robotics team at Google was I think a
really really great environment for
seeing the sign of life and creating the
relationships and the community that
allow the robot community and like these
advances to flourish. There is Locky uh
which we met when we uh were thinking
about starting the company and has just
been really instrumental in making sure
that we're a good business and there is
Adnan our hardware lead um that came
over from Andro and Adnan has a really
difficult job because if you want to
work on cross embodiment you remember my
uh joke about how if you want to add two
years to your grad school you bring on
one more robots the the hardware problem
and the operational problem for us is
how do We built improve and scale a
fleet of had the joinious robot you know
it's just not one robot platform and
because we built the organization from
scratch in the beginning to to support
that like I think we're able to do it
but it's just a really hard uh problem
um because
there's just like no two different
robots in the fleet like how do you make
sure that everything runs smoothly.
We're really good at diva and conquer if
you ask. Um,
&gt;&gt; but so how how many co-founders are
there in total?
&gt;&gt; We have Brian, we have Chelsea, Sergey,
myself, Locky, and Adnan.
&gt;&gt; Is it just necessary to have that many
co-founders to solve a problem as big as
this? Or was it a case like you were
already sort of like a unit together?
You'd already worked together and you
just what whatever you started, you
would all have wanted to work together.
&gt;&gt; One common question that we have is, you
know, why band together? And, you know,
the first is that we really enjoy each
other company. um we spend a lot of time
at work and it's you know in some sense
give meaning to life and so we really
want to enjoy the relationship we have
at work. Um and the second is that you
know any one of us could have started um
a company and be successful but the
problem is just so incredibly hard and
the chances of success is just so much
higher that we bent together and we can
divide and conquer the problems. Um and
you know that's that I think one of the
main reason why the progress has been
much faster than than we expected.
&gt;&gt; What were the differences of um you
working before in either academia or a
big industry big company like Google and
as opposed to now in a startup.
&gt;&gt; This is this is the first time for a lot
of you doing a startup right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah this is the first time for a lot of
us. Um one of the really surprising
thing that we learned when we started
the company is that the infrastructure
for supporting large scale general
purpose robot were just not there and
you know this start from the software
itself. How do you collect data? What
device do you use to collect data? How
do you manage the data? How do you uh
annotate the data? How do you get
visibility into the data? How do you run
evaluation? How do you build operational
process? like there wasn't company that
offer this kind of services which is
very different from software and we were
really surprised um to to find out and
so we end up writing a lot of the
software at PI um oursel but I think
this is another area of incredible
opportunity of kind of building services
for robot company like you know if you
can offer remote teleout for example if
you can offer data collections if you
can offer annotation service because you
know these are functions that doesn't
need to be repeated from one company to
the next. So I think there's lots of
opportunity to build um kind of support
for growing robotic business. Um so
that's one thing like one surprising
thing that I learned and the second is I
think one of the reason why we have
managed to achieve such progress is that
there is a really tight loop of
collaboration in the entire life cycle
of model development. um going from what
task you collect data for. If you
collect data for that task, how do you
do it? What hardware do you use? Once
after you collect the data, how do you
get visibility? How do you ensure data
quality? Um how do you then make sure
that you can easily train on that data?
If after you train on that, how do you
run evaluation? Evaluation is really
hard problem in robotic because it scale
super linearly to model capability. Like
let's say you have a model that can
perform a two-minute task. running
evaluation for that is very different
from running evaluation for a task
that's 20 minutes like it's not 10 times
harder. It's it's it's more than 10
times harder. um after you run
evaluation how you can how do you can
like dis dist distill the learning from
that evaluation to know how to improve
the the model further like one of the
really side project I would love to take
on is to build a automated robotic
research scientist
&gt;&gt; um which is really one of the bottleneck
we have today because this is a really
difficult skill set um that require
intuition about the entire stack so you
know I would love it if there is a model
that can ingest multi model data such as
this and analyze filler modes um you
know understanding oh is the robot
performing this way because of the data
that was collected or the way that it
was annotated or the way that we train
the model and then you know suggest idea
and actually try them to figure out if
you know those hypothesis are correct so
that's something that I would love to
have and would like dramatically unlock
us some sometime I make the joke in the
company that we should record all of the
meetings and then yes
&gt;&gt; train train a model to to basically just
make prediction about what is the next
set Oh, you could. You totally could.
What if it's OpenClaw and um Obsidian
and Markdown files and like you know a
brain.md with like ontology that's
custom to your use case and what if it's
100 open clause in the background that
you orchestrate.
&gt;&gt; I think there's two sides to this. The
first is that we already see a little
bit of a side of life where for simple
failure modes um during evaluation if
you can describe the way that the robot
fail in text very precisely and very
clearly then you know you can ask a
language model to make very reasonable
recommendation about what the next step
is. Um but the the flip side is that
this only works for simple cases today.
And the reason why that's the case is
because I think it's pretty um
fundamental limitation of the model that
we have today which is that they are not
at the core model that take action in
the world and see the consequences of
its own action especially action that
changes the physical world. Um and and
so I I think this kind of very
fundamental understanding about how the
physical world works is missing from the
really large foundation model. Um and
and I think that's that's one of the
ingredient that's missing to to be able
to build this automated robot research
scientist.
&gt;&gt; What's interesting about openclaw? I
don't know. I mean basically it can go
and it can just do things which is
interesting and then at that point it's
on the research lab to provide like you
know CLI MCP endpoints to the things
that might control robots or uh
reconfigure rooms or I mean I think
Karpathy feels like he's he's starting
to talk a bunch about this where you
know if you mix auto research plus what
he's been talking about with markdown
files like it might just happen in the
open like it, you know, there's this
sort of sense that you have to make
something much much more complicated to
make it work. But what if that's just
wrong? What if we just have markdown
files and agents and, you know, you
could make it yourself with, you know,
literally clawed code and MCP today?
What if it's not an algorithm problem?
It's just literally an integration
challenge.
&gt;&gt; We have a version of this internally
that I use a lot. There was a point when
I was spending a um embarrassingly large
amount of money on API queries.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um and you know the my team was like
Juan what are you doing?
&gt;&gt; Oh I'm that guy at Y Combinator right
now.
&gt;&gt; So uh the to give you an example um we
have a uh clot skill that essentially
serving the role of a pre-training on
call today. Um so you know we have these
pre-training runs that are really large.
Um it's very I think a difficult
exercise to keep them alive to you know
for them to continue to churn just
because there's so many things that can
go wrong and we have um a a prototype a
pre-training on call that kind of
babysit the run and have the permission
to take action to remedy error that it
see um and the one of the surprising
outcome of that exercise is that it it
leads about 50% improvement in compute
usage like just overall compute
utilization for that large pre- training
run which is huge for us. Um and you
know this is just a small simple
prototype that that I built and I think
like there's a lot more to be done.
&gt;&gt; Quan this is incredible. Thank you so
much for everything. Thank you for
making physical intelligence. Thank you
for showing us these incredible demos.
And uh honestly like the thing that
gives me the most hope is this idea that
there's an entity there's a you know
research lab out there that is focused
on giving this to the world you know
about to create this Cambrian explosion
of robotic startups. So someone watching
right now will be inspired by this and
uh you know start playing with your
models and they might create a robot
that uh touches billions of people's
lives in for the good. Thank you for
having me been a pleasure. Um to the
listener the one takeaway that I want
you to have is I think robotic has
changed a lot and the cost of building
in robotic has decreased and I think
will continue to dramatically um
decrease and it also require a very
different kind of scrappy skill set um
that young startup like needs. We hope
to enable really an explosion of many
many many different robotic use case and
you know always reach out to us if you
want to collaborate.
&gt;&gt; Thanks man.
&gt;&gt; Thanks so much.
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
