原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLypHkIVLqc

A year from now, where do you think the
platform will be?
&gt;&gt; We want to experiment with directions
where claud actually gets so good at
understanding itself. It figures out
what model you should be using, it
figures out how to spin up all the sub
agents, you don't have to think so much
about what kind of architectures are
there because cla is actually able to
understand itself enough that it can
write itself on the fly. In that world,
if Claude is on the fly, your agents on
the fly are becoming what they need to
become in order for you to do what
you're trying to do, the platform has to
seriously scale.
&gt;&gt; How close are we to Claude making me a
billion dollars? is that's really what
I'm asking.
[music]
&gt;&gt; Angela, Caitlyn, welcome to the show.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having us.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, thank you.
&gt;&gt; So, for people who don't know, you both
work on the platform at Anthropic. So,
Angel, you're the head of product for
the cloud platform and Caitlyn, you are
the head of engineering for the cloud
platform. Um, I'm I'm really psyched to
talk to you because a you've been
launching a bunch of stuff. You have
cloud manage agents that uh came out
recently. You've been launching new
features for it. And I think that it it
comes at this really interesting time
where it makes me think about what
actually is a platform in AI for a model
company because in the GBT3 days, the
platform was a completion endpoint. you
just like send a prompt to get a
response. Um, after that it was like a
completion endpoint with tool calling
and a couple and like chat sessions like
that kind of stuff. And now it like with
cloud manage agents you're essentially
getting a cloud on a computer um with
memory and all this other stuff. Um, so
I'm just trying to I' I'd love to help
I'd love for you to help me unpack that
trajectory and like what it means to
build a platform in AI.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, I think like you know your
your characterization is like very
accurate. I think like as we've kind of
like as a lot of these kind of like
technologies have evolved with the LM
like first starting and then I think
like uh putting that behind an API was
very fun. A lot of people were like wow
I could like do some at the time I think
it was very cool. Now we'll probably
look back at it and be like oh that was
like really basic. Um and then you know
I think like we've moved more and more
towards like a slightly more like
stateful world as you kind of like want
to persist the kind of like sessions
state um to be able to make sure that
the kind of performance of the model is
like better and better. I think that
that's probably like actually the the
through line like as a lot of these kind
of like um as we make improvements to
Claude and as it continues to get better
and like more autonomous we find
ourselves like basically needing to kind
of like evolve the platform to be sort
of like higher and higher order
abstraction but it's in the pursuit of
like helping you get the best outcomes
out of something like I think in the
very beginning you know we were very
like everyone was very exploratory it's
like you'd have no idea what people were
going to build with these LLMs and you
wanted to kind of have as much
possibility out there as um as available
and then as those use cases started to
kind of narrow down like people started
building products with it. People
started now like building agents with it
and more and more of that is about you
know like customers coming to us and
being like how do I get the best out of
claude? Um how do I like set up my
tools? How do I run the loop? And so on
and so forth and you have some people
who are like really really experimenting
and they're on the edges and that's
great. And then you have like just a
whole host of other folks that are
coming in who are like I kind of want a
lot of this stuff like out of the box.
Um and in our pursuit for get make
making sure that like claude is
basically producing the best outcomes we
find ourselves like enriching the
platform to be richer and richer and
richer and that's in you know contained
in that is like both the state it's like
the tools that you start to see us
adding um and contains a lot of kind of
like almost like sort of the cloud
components of a lot of these types of
things. Um but it's in pursuit of the
same mission of like just making things
literally as easy as possible. And I
think in probably you know the forward
state of a lot of these things in terms
of maybe the philosophy of what a
platform ultimately ends up doing it
probably ends up just being like
whatever in it's like the set of
primitives and infrastructure that
enables you to basically get the outcome
as fast as possible um with actually as
little of work as possible and I think
that that tends to follow a certain form
factor at least in this current state
&gt;&gt; um but yeah
&gt;&gt; how would you characterize like what the
primitives are today so maybe that's
just asking what are the primitives in
cloud manage agents.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, cloud manage agents is built
on all of our same primitives that you
could otherwise build on directly. So,
the messages API um and within the
messages API, we've built a whole bunch
of I guess maybe innovations around the
API, like you could just get tokens in
and out if you really wanted to, but um
you know, you can use some of our
built-in tools. You can build you can
use stuff like code execution, spawn a
sandbox, and execute work. um you can
use I guess like you know web search and
all these sorts of different things and
so I think we've taken what we see as
all the most powerful of those things
and put them together into a harness and
a set of infrastructure that is you know
just the way to get what we think is the
best outcomes out of claude. So, I'm
sitting here feeling this sense of I've
been thinking of it as like time
deflation like my time gets more
valuable in the future as opposed to uh
the opposite whatever but whatever the
the opposite would be my time gets less
valuable in the future. [laughter] Um uh
and and and the reason is because we're
so for example internally for us we're
building an agent we're building some
agent products where it's like agents
that do specific things for us
internally and then hopefully for
customers and in order to do that we've
like you know we have a couple Mac minis
with you know cloud running in a loop on
the Mac mini right and a lot of that and
it's like a thousand line Python file or
whatever and a lot of that mirrors what
you guys are building in cloud managed
agents and so for for for me and I think
for a lot of people building on cloud or
on the cloud platform or ecosystem
there's there's at least I feel this
maybe we should just wait for you guys
to build it. Um but then I don't know
what the lines are and uh and I yeah I'm
sort of wondering
if if I want to build an agent like what
is the best path to do that in a way
that aligns with what you guys are
doing?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um I think you know this is this
part of the the kind of platform
business is actually somewhat similar to
any other form of the platform business
where you do have customers like like
yourself who are building and you know
you're kind of thinking should I go
ahead and do it because maybe I have
this like immediate need but at the same
time I don't kind of want to like you
know repeat the work per se and you
could have just when you could have just
gotten it for free um out of the
platform.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; and also infrastructure sucks. It's so
it sucks so much to like spin up servers
and I can't believe you do that all the
time. [laughter]
that part. Everyone's like that's how I
started. But I I will actually say um
part of why we ended up building cloud
manage agents was because Anthropic
ourselves had gone through enough of
these iterations where we built products
that were agents that you could run
autonomously in the cloud and we did
that stand up the infrastructure so that
it works well sort of work enough times
that um we ourselves were like okay
we're done building this for ourselves.
We're we're doing it once in a way
that's going to really work from
everything that we've learned, but also
for all the people who are doing it.
Like you can run whatever you're running
on a couple Mac minis maybe, right? And
for a lot of people that could work, but
I think if you're building agents into
your product and you're running
something really at scale, right? Like
that's where it really starts to become
more and more challenging to get that
infrastructure right.
&gt;&gt; That's really interesting.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And then maybe to answer the other
part of your question, I think we have
like two pieces of the philosophy here.
one is is a bit in the way that we kind
of design manage agents which is that we
try to have it be modular enough like we
want to be opinionated about some pieces
that we feel like should be you know
very well like married to the cloud
model um but then we uh like oftent
times like the way we want for example
we want claude to like very specifically
use like file systems um that's like a
very particular like cloud
&gt;&gt; in a specific way or just file systems
in general
&gt;&gt; just file systems in general we we also
really want to lean into skills I know
like a lot of folks like skills but like
that's something that we like we want to
have our hardest be really opinionated
about that and so we're kind of
particular about like those kind of
primitives being the case. So like use
the file systems, use the skills,
they're really basic. Um but at the same
time like we still find people who are
like still trying other methodologies to
go do that and we want to kind of like
help you you know when you build to
start uh just kind of starting the best
foot. Um so that's one piece uh on some
of the kind of more opinionated ones.
But as each one of these kind of like
you know endpoints or or um APIs that we
have as part of the suite, we try to
like open them up a little bit um in
certain areas. So there's like things
that you know we're looking uh kind of
forward to and being like you know from
maybe it's not available today but in
our design um we are trying to make it
flexible enough for people to kind of
like add in different pieces because we
recognize that this API or suite of APIs
is not necessarily going to solve like
maybe everything in its original
construct and they're going to be pieces
that need to kind of open up. Um and
then the second bit is like you know
we're we're kind of public about this is
like when we do design a lot of these
things we do put out like blog posts and
sort of like reference implementations.
So if you did want to kind of at least
be inspired by that construct but still
maybe make your own on the messages API
um you can definitely do that.
&gt;&gt; I think that's to the to the point you
just made that's something that's that's
coming up for us. Again, we have, you
know, clouds running on a Mac Mini with
a Python file and a couple other like
uh, you know, bigger, more serious
implementations on like, you know, cloud
infrastructure that we're trying to
figure out what to do with. And I think
I I told the team that we were talking
today and I think one of the uh one of
the questions that they have or or one
of the feelings of conernnation that
they have considering using cloud
managed agents for this kind of thing
for spinning up agents for our customers
is just right now it's a like we have a
playground. We have we just have like a
little we have a server or a Mac Mini.
We can just like pipe stuff to to
Claude. It can do anything that cloud
code can do. It has a file system, it
has a browser, it has like all this
stuff. If we want to, you know, switch
it switch it out to GBT 5.5 or Gemini or
whatever, it's like pretty easy to to do
that. Um,
so is that kind of and I feel like they
they they feel like they're we're going
to get if we use a cloud manage agent,
we're going to get locked in and it's
not going to we're not going to have the
flexibility to do all the stuff that we
want. And it it there there's also a
worry that features are going to come to
cloud code itself that won't be in cloud
managed agent for a little while and
that it'll prevent us from being at the
edge which is sort of what we promise to
our customers and really to ourselves
like we just love being like just doing
whatever the new thing is. How do you
think about that?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think the what's nice about
the way that we work internally I guess
is like so we run the platform and the
platform for what most people think of
it as is our externally facing APIs and
our suite of APIs. Um the other rest of
what our team actually does is internal
platform in the sense that all of our
firstparty products are built directly
on the same platform as everybody else.
And so what's cool about that is we're
we spend all of our time, not all of our
time, but a lot of our time working with
the teams internally who are building on
top of the platform and kind of enabling
the features that they will build
sharing ideas and these sorts of things.
And so I think over time you'll maybe
see less and less divergence of um you
know like what might be available in
cloud manage agents, what might be
available in co-worker cloud code that
might sit on top of the same
infrastructure, right? Like that's I
think one way to think about that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And then I think you know on your
point around or your team's point around
like you know having some kind of like
model lock in fear I think that that's
like valid like many folks kind of have
that consternation. And I think we're
kind of at this place where there's a
bit of like an evolution here where you
know if you look back um maybe even just
a couple months ago it was very standard
to kind of build a very very very
generic harness. It's super generic and
then you can kind of hot swap models
across all of those things. And I think
for kind of an older generation of
models across labs that kind of worked
like okay a lot of things were were
moving at a pace where I think that that
was like mildly reasonable. I think now
um for the next kind of generation of
models and as we kind of see it forward
I think you kind of see this a little
bit from every lab like everyone's
taking like slightly different um
techniques and perspectives on how they
want to kind of advance their particular
form of the model. And so in theory, I
guess you could do kind of the superset
of all those things, but more often than
not, I think, you know, like when you
build agents for your company or for
your customers, you do want to deliver
like an outcome ultimately for them. And
so I think that that level of
abstraction of like what you're actually
hot swapping stops becoming this like
really generic harness and hot swapping
the model and it gets more to like the
harness and the model get very paired.
you still need redundancy and you still
might want to use other models for
things, but you probably do it at the
layer of like the agent, meaning like
the harness plus the model um rather
than necessarily the other architecture
of like you know really really generic
harness and and hot swapping everything
underneath.
&gt;&gt; That's really interesting. Is that how I
don't know the cursors of the world are
doing things like do they have a
separate harness for each model or is it
a generic harness that they're kind of
hot swapping the models in and out of?
Do you know?
&gt;&gt; Um I'm not entirely sure. My uh
intuition would be that like I don't
know about cursor in particular but
there have been like teams that we have
talked to who have kind of fallen on
similar kind of perspectives and it's
mostly because they're just trying to
squeeze the most out of each model to
kind of like uh almost like harness
engineer like every single like nuance.
Um and you know one example that we have
it's it's not an external customer per
se but um something that we've done a
lot internally like we recently launched
like memory for example with with manage
agents um and we tried a bunch of
different different harnesses ourselves
like we tried one that was like the one
that we ended up launching um we tried a
bunch of others using a bunch of
different other techniques and um at
least personally for myself like when I
saw the kind of like eval suite from
like the team but each one of these
harnesses performed drastically
differently and so I think like just
even looking at something like that um
shows you that like you can actually
hill climb a tremendous amount by just
like harness engineering the right
pieces together and I think if you were
to just take that forward across like
all model combinations across all
different labs all different kinds of
providers um there is a lot of alpha in
that kind of construct and so I wouldn't
be surprised if more than just ourselves
have experimented with that level of
like you know unit tying
&gt;&gt; it's really interesting that there's
this path dependence where you make some
choice for how you do requests and
responses or how you do tool calls or
whether you're you have the model want
to use file systems or not and then that
sort of like
&gt;&gt; changes the trajectory of all these
different models.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And it feels like maybe at the
time like such a small almost like you
know kind of like footnote um but it
ends up uh becoming very big. Do you
think that that will end up affecting
the model's generalizability in the
sense that at some point um they they'll
just have these sort of uh maybe locked
in lanes of stuff that they're good at
because they're you know cloud is really
good at file systems and OpenAI is you
know GPT is good at some other things
like yeah how is that going to uh how's
that going to flow through the model's
like personality and behavior if it's
like locked into a specific way of doing
things?
&gt;&gt; I do think it does actually kind of tend
to lock the model. So like what um what
we end up like kind of treating as like
the right path and the right primitives
need to be like very carefully thought
through. Um and so like I think in the
in some eras uh you know like of of
other models uh they become really
really really good at like reasoning and
then they almost like overoptimize on
that level of reasoning and there's
other perspectives around like okay like
yes we wanted to be really good at like
a computer like maybe the computer part
is the the interesting part and so if
you think through maybe some of the the
primitives which we could get right we
could get wrong but at least we'll like
go through the thought process of like
that will probably at least lead us you
know one path or the other um I think
it's hard to say like you know which
direction per se will ultimately be
true. But I do think there's a lot of
like path dependency it ends up taking.
So being really like thoughtful about
what you choose to actually include or
give kind of the model more natively is
really important.
&gt;&gt; Are there any of those path dependencies
that you've had to undo?
&gt;&gt; H
um
probably um I can't I can't speak enough
about that at the anthropic level. I've
only been here like a couple of months,
but I have to imagine that that has been
the case. Um I mean we've experimented
like even at other labs like that the
kind of like primitives that we have to
take a look at are constantly changing.
Um and you do kind of hit like a little
local maxima and rethink like okay maybe
there's like a more generic approach.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Um I want to
take a take a step back and and ask you
something that maybe I should have asked
at the beginning which is like who who
is cloud manage agents for? Right. Like
I I set one up earlier today. We we've
got some people already using it in
production inside of every and I just I
just did one today. I really loved the
um the sort of like getting started chat
experience that you that you had and the
sort of um some of the examples that you
had and it it felt to me like even if I
was not technical I might want to use
this to set up an agent. It it might be
a little bit complicated but what I
actually did is I just and I'm sorry to
say this but I did it in the codeex
inapp browser. So, I had Codeex driving
the uh the manage agent setup and it
like I had a Slackbot working pretty
pretty quickly. It was like it was
really cool. So, how do you think about
when you're designing stuff when you're
designing cloud manage agents who it's
for?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, it's interesting because I
think you're right that especially with
that quick start experience which we
actually felt pretty strongly about
launching not specifically for the sake
of making it so that non-technical
people could go and build agents but
actually just for anybody technical or
not to be able to wrap their head around
the primitives like
&gt;&gt; here's what it can do and here's how it
fits together
&gt;&gt; exactly like you know the the kind of
education portion of it. Um but I think
when we think about who it's for we
think about a couple different things.
One is we're seeing people internally
within companies build automation or
build really powerful platforms or
systems like we've seen people say I
want you know a full endto-end software
development platform right and like
manage agent is a perfect solution for
something like that or you know I want
to automate a little process over here
where like legal has to review my
marketing copy right and things like
that um
&gt;&gt; and so you shouldn't have to reimplement
memory and like all that stuff
&gt;&gt; when you're doing that right you can get
started really quickly and you can get
something running quickly. The other
user that's top of mind for us is people
building into their products that they
expose to their customers. Um, and so
that's the other one where actually yes,
like you do still want a lot of
customization. You do still want to make
something that's going to be really
powerful for your product, but we still
like definitely definitely believe that
not spending your engineering resources
on the infrastructure and on all the
little harness engineering tweaking sort
of stuff is like
&gt;&gt; why couldn't we have talked like a month
ago? you would have saved us [laughter]
so much time.
&gt;&gt; We'll just need to talk more. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; But I am I am sort of curious. Okay, so
maybe infrastructure is one of these
things, but um when you see people
setting up agents, what do they what do
you see them think the hard thing is and
what ends up actually being the hard
thing and are they the same?
&gt;&gt; Good question. I I maybe this is I don't
know, spicy. I'm not sure, but I think I
think people think the harness
engineering part is the hard part. Um,
and so actually like you know in the
past we launched the agent SDK which is
what you guys I think are using um on
your Mac minis and for a lot of people
they were like okay great I don't have
to do the harness engineering part where
I have to do prompt caching and I have
to maximize my context window and all
these sorts of things.
&gt;&gt; I think we're just actually using just
claude inbat like the claude-p command.
Wow.
&gt;&gt; It's it's pretty good.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Cool. Nice. [laughter]
Okay. Cool. And but regardless like you
guys did that because it takes off your
hands building the harness, right? Um
but I do think what we saw with a lot of
customers was okay now I want to go and
take that thing and like get it into
production and scale it and everybody
hits an infrastructure wall. Like
everyone hits the same problem of like
oh wow I either need to like keep a
server constantly running or I need to
use infrastructure that will spin up and
spin down and I need to store the
transcript data and I need secure
sandboxing and all these sorts of
things. And so um you know and like if
you boot a cloud code session or you
boot the agent SDK in a sandbox and like
that's the thing that you have running
but your sandbox loses connection and
dies or whatever your whole agent dies
right and so I think the infrastructure
part especially is the wall that most
people end up hitting but they're more
expecting that the actual harness
engineering and like getting the most
out of the model is the part that's
going to be harder.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I totally agree with that. I was
just going to say like you know we we
talked to so many people who are now at
a place where they're like prototyping
really quickly and they're super excited
and it's like it's doing the thing and
then yet there's like a class of people
who are you know really pushing and
being like okay I I do want to hill
climb I really want to edit the hardest.
Um but then once you have that thing
like productionizing is just a freaking
nightmare. Um especially for the more
interesting kind of long running async
ones that you want to do a bit more
remotely that are a bit more autonomous.
Um, and everyone kind of runs into that
wall and was a big inspiration for why
we built what we built.
&gt;&gt; I feel like uh one of the like examples
of the shape of an agent is OpenClaw.
&gt;&gt; Um, and in particular the the thing that
it has brought to us internally is you
have an always on agent in Slack that
has its own personality and has its own
like part of the world that it like ends
up working on. Are you guys like is is
that a possible future for like okay a
one-click agent that lives in my Slack
that yes I can go set up all the
internals but like I don't have to
really think about all of the um you
know the technical infrastructure stuff
um because I I think you you all have
the the beginnings of that but it's
still like a lot of steps from the
current manage agent to something that's
always on in my Slack that I have to
like set up and customize. So is that
does that fall in the realm of
platform's job or is it like too far in
the product direction?
&gt;&gt; No, it definitely is uh something that
we really want to do. I think like you
know we we focused a lot on kind of the
infrastructure piece to start because
that's where we just see a lot of these
like pain points.
&gt;&gt; Um but yes like I think in like it's
like you know I don't want to say
exactly say final shape but in its like
advanced shape we actually want to make
it so that you can kind of deploy these
agents really really easily. Like um
we've made like some light steps in this
direction. Like for example, we included
vaults um as one of the primitives as
just kind of
&gt;&gt; and vaults store your like keys and
stuff like your oath keys,
&gt;&gt; credentials.
&gt;&gt; Credentials.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. um as like you know kind of
solving some of the lower level pieces
as a starting point but once you kind of
wrap some of these more sort of like
agent identity type of primitives in a
more secure way and you can handle it
really easily and it works with like the
whole like system then uh you know I
think it's very natural for us to get to
a place where maybe you are either
one-clicking uh Slack integration or
alternatively even maybe just telling
you know Claude like add Slack and it
just like handles absolutely everything
and then before you know it your little
bot is just pinging you on Slack.
&gt;&gt; I love it. I uh can't wait for that
world. [laughter]
Um what are the best internal use cases
of agents? Because I think there's this
big question happening right now where
okay yeah everyone's in codeex or cloud
code but then now we have these agents
that are out in the cloud now everyone
inside of a company can like have their
own agent there are team agents there
are companywide agents. So what are the
patterns that you see for when people
make really useful internal agents what
they do and what they look like? Yeah, I
would say we similar to and we've
actually seen a few examples of these in
some of the more like AI pill companies
like um Stripe built minions and they
talked about that a lot as their kind of
like endto-end development platform that
their engineers could use. Um I think
ramp did something similar and um we've
done similar things as well, right? Like
yeah, we've built kind of platforms
internally that are you know I have
agents running that I can talk to from
Slack or from wherever, right? And um at
a certain point that becomes actually
like a pretty thin layer on top of
managed agents like you don't have to do
very much to accomplish.
&gt;&gt; That's what I was thinking like I looked
at minions or whatever ramp does and I
was like it why why you know so is it is
it actually useful to have a sort of
like thin coding agent that anyone in
the company can use or like why not just
install the cloud app in Slack? Yeah, I
would say the difference in a platform
like that and some of the things that
we've done internally is there's a lot
of customization that you might want to
do on you know the development
environment where an agent is actually
running and able to verify its changes
right and and things like that. It's
like here's how our CI/CD works like
&gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. And so, you know, I think
for lots and lots and lots of people
like cloud code is an excellent tool,
right? And and you can run cloud agents
with cloud code and and that is really
great. But I think if you're trying to
do a bit more endto-end development,
right, and you maybe want to bake in
more custom things, then you could start
with something like managed agents and
build a layer on top of that and end up
with something that's maybe closer to
that endto-end experience. It also seems
to me like there's something in
particular about having a team that you
need to work with that makes a the
manage agent shape important as opposed
to it just all works in cloud code. Like
I guess technically you could like sync
the skills between everyone's cloud
code, but like there's something about
just we all have one agent that does
this thing that seems to work. Yeah, I'm
really glad you brought that one up
because I think like um that's actually
like one of the more common areas where
we see uh a lot of the opportunity is
that uh to your point, you know, there's
a lot of like individual productivity
that's happening whether you're a
developer or a non-developer. There's
like so many tools that you're using to
just like make yourself like more
automated, more, you know, high
leverage. Um but then when you get to
the team layer, suddenly everything gets
like massively more complex. Like number
one, obviously it can't like sit on your
laptop. And yes, you could maybe like,
you know, put it in the cloud, but it's
again more for yourself um to kind of
like handle with your laptop closed. But
then you go to like, okay, well, now
like the three of us want like, you
know, a couple agents that interface
with each other and work with each
other, and then maybe we're automating a
process kind of end to end. And
especially for some of the more complex
processes that you kind of envision
being like really transformed with AI,
you do need like um you do need that
kind of like team orientation. Um, and
that needs to happen at like a layer
that's a slightly higher bit of
abstraction than just a single agent.
Um, and I think some of the teams
exploring, you know, kind of multi-agent
architectures and things like that are
really exciting, but it needs to be
built on top of a little bit of like a
platform that everyone kind of spin up
and down and control. Um, and I think G
from Versell like had a really good
perspective on this in a way where I
think his company Versell is obviously
incredibly like AIDS and he kind of
describes it as sort of like an AI like
software factory like internally. Um,
and I think that's exactly like the
right mindset. And that like produces
um, you know, like extremely high
leverage organization that's really just
like creating a tremendous amount of
productivity, but not just for
themselves, just like for every single
process that they have in the company.
&gt;&gt; And I I really want to go back to this
like, okay, agent use cases. We've got
coding agents that that anyone can use
in the company. Like what are the other
ones that are that you see people
standing up that are really useful?
&gt;&gt; We've seen a few. So, one of the fun
things that we get to do is just kind of
work with our internal teams of
different functions and like help them
identify because we actually just get to
learn a lot as a result of doing that.
And so, the silly example I brought up
earlier of like legal team needs to
review marketing copy [laughter] was one
of the ones that
&gt;&gt; very real.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Like extremely real like we like
blew people's minds with like very basic
agents that just give people the right
setup to be able to do that. So, you've
seen that.
&gt;&gt; Well, what does that actually do? So
it's like there there's marketing copy
and there's a legal agent that is just
like watching what everything marketing
does and it's like stop like
how does it work?
&gt;&gt; It's more like okay [laughter] I'm a
marketer and I've written some copy
right and in the past maybe you would
have opened a ticket or something and be
like can you please review this copy?
Um, but instead you submit it to this
like, you know, little app that we built
on top of agents that is like, "Okay,
cool. Now I'm gonna go
&gt;&gt; as an agent review first and then put it
in Legal's inbox as a already first pass
review was done." And maybe actually
like the agent is it's clear enough that
it can say, "Okay, marketing, you're
good, right?" Or maybe it's still like,
"No, this needs like an extra human
review." And so, yeah, just and that's
the sort of thing where again, just thin
layer on top. Um but you can build the
you know you have access I have access
we can both see the outputs and we can
work together on that.
&gt;&gt; Okay but then so for example why is that
not a skill? So it's a it can it very
much can be a skill and that actually is
like if you you would probably build
that agent as a you know legal reviewer
agent right and so you would have MCP
servers or whatever it is that help you
access external context you would have
skills that help you understand like
here's what rules we have to follow and
not follow right and all those things
and you put all those things together
but then you can just fire off a session
with that agent and then I think the
last piece you need and this is where
I'm saying it's a really thin layer is
just like the form factor on top where
like different people can collaborate
together and like work with that agent
and multiple agents can be involved in
the system. Um, and so I think it goes a
little bit broader than a skill because
you kind of still need like the right
form factor for the agent to be able to
go run and then for people to be able to
interact with it. Another core bit of
why it's like not a skill is because or
not exclusively a skill is because you
actually do need human in the loop. Um,
and so like if you were to automate the
whole thing and you were just, you know,
like taking the skill and looking at
yourself from like legal skill for
example, like in that world, of course,
you could have just like done a pure
skill. Um, but if you need a human in
the loop to be like, okay, like I want
to review and I do want to check and I
want to like we're looking at like legal
things and so there's a bit of like, you
know, authentication that's sort of
necessary. Um, in order to automate that
entire process, you kind of need like
agents to go do the thing. And so
because you need to spin up sort of
separate sessions for that to happen,
some sort of stitching is necessary that
can't be instantiated in a single skill.
&gt;&gt; That's really interesting. Yeah. Um
Okay. So just to push on that a little
bit. So what is the best practice for
you? You create an agent that uh it's
its job is to make sure that when
marketing is writing something, they can
get it approved really quickly by legal.
And sometimes it'll approve things
immediately. Sometimes it sends stuff to
legal. And ideally, it's like getting
better all the time, so it can do more
and more, right? What is the best
practice for who owns that agent once
it's built? Because one of the things
that we found is if you don't have a
human who's responsible for the agent,
it gets stale very quickly. And then it
ends up being kind of this like dead
thing that's just like out there doing
stuff, but it's not necessarily good.
And also, uh, even if it kind of works,
there's all there are going to be all
these times where legal's like, "You
asked me to approve this, but I don't
really need to approve this thing. Like,
let's update your prompt." So, like, how
does that all work when it works? as
well.
&gt;&gt; So, it's actually really interesting
because so the form factor thing, right,
like the app that sits on top of that
that we originally built. Um, one of our
teams worked on that, right? And and
like kind of sitting with these teams
and understanding what they needed. Um,
and they were kind of like, okay, here
you go, and we're going to go do other
stuff now and like let us know how this
goes for you. Um, and then a really cool
thing actually ended up happening where
people on those teams who were using the
tool were like, "Oh, I wish like this
little thing could get tweaked or this
thing could get better." Um, and they
like popped open cloud code and like
made some of the changes to the actual
And so,
&gt;&gt; and then is your team responsible for
approving the PR? Does it just like go
in? Uh, usually my team's responsible
for reviewing the PR if it's a system
that we actually own. But um, but yeah,
like people can kind of self-s serve
making changes to those things, which I
think is really cool. So, um, it is I I
do think we're still in a stage for a
lot of teams, a lot of companies. Like
even going back to, you know, like
Stripe has minions, right? Like Stripe
has a large developer productivity team.
Uh, we used to work at Stripe so we
spend a lot of time with them, but um,
they have a large developer productivity
team. They're awesome and they're
obviously putting a lot of work and
energy into building platforms and tools
like this. And so I think we're
definitely still in a place where
something like managed agents or being
able to build on top of our platform is
really powerful, but you still kind of
need the like AI pill and technical
people within a business to then go like
create something really excellent on top
of that that works well for whatever
you're trying to do.
&gt;&gt; That's interesting. Yeah, I I love the
anyone can open a PR to to do this
because everyone's using cloud code. One
of the things that I find talking to
people who are in infrastructure roles
at companies where this is starting to
happen is like you you know that you
know the meme where it's like um there's
there's a person and he's like going
like this and he has like daggers in his
like back and he's like cover [laughter]
&gt;&gt; it's like infrastructure people are that
for like now anyone can like
&gt;&gt; can can submit PRs. Yeah. Um, how do you
how do you deal with that and how do you
do that? Well, because obviously like in
an ideal world, you would love for a
legal to be able to submit PRs to
improve this agent. And also,
&gt;&gt; um, sometimes they're probably going to
submit stupid stuff that wastes time.
And so, what are the what are the right
ways to either organizationally, like
culturally or technically like make that
possible without ruining your your
lives? For this particular one that
we've constructed that Caitlyn's given
as an example, we actually have like a
couple layers of abstraction away from
like that kind of like PR layer. So at
the very beginning, it kind of like
started that way and to kind of like
basically prevent users from kind of
footing themselves a little bit. Uh they
kind of get to a place where oftent
times their way of interacting with the
agent that they own like the whether it
it's the marketing team who owns the
marketing agent requesting or if it's
the legal team, you know, owning the
agent that does the review. um they
actually engage with those agents
through Claude itself. So they actually
spend more of their time like kind of
talking directly to Claude and then
Claude will oftentimes figure out what
should be the right way for them to go
and handle it so that they're not kind
of like you know hopping straight down
to the absolute core bit and doing
something that may result in you know
some complications
&gt;&gt; and they're talking to Claude or Claude
code like claude chat or claude code or
co-work
&gt;&gt; it's a different instantiation of of of
claude um that we made that actually is
a managed agent in of itself. So it's
just kind of like manage agents all the
way down um in that construct. Uh but we
found that each layer if we kind of tune
and and prompt each variant of the
managed agent it helps to solve like you
know different parts of the problem for
users. So at the end state for you know
like that marketing person or that legal
person it is like a really simple
interface where the way that we tell
them is like you're just talking to
claude but under the hood it's many many
clouds engaging with each other to get
to the part where then they the clouds
themselves are doing the more complex
work that the human doesn't really
necessarily need to interpret.
&gt;&gt; Interesting. You guys just launched
multi-agent orchestration. What are the
coolest what are the coolest things that
people are doing with that?
Um, one of the more interesting ones is
like um I think people are using it to
like construct sort of different harness
techniques and that one I'm personally
very excited by um because like there's
different techniques that people have
experimented with where um you know like
for example we recently did like the
advisor strategy one but really if you
were to genericize it you just separate
like execution from advice and there's
also one where you can have like two you
know modes where there one is generating
someone something and the other one's
adversarial to it and then there could
also be sort like you know you split it
into a bunch of different like little
tiny pieces and then they kind of
recombine and then there's ones where
maybe it's kind of something closer to
like best of end kind of like style of
thing and then there's so many more and
like in each one of these different
types of like architectures or
strategies they are good for very
specific use cases. So some of them are
much better for like uh deep research or
wide research type of uh style use
cases, right? And there others that are
like these are like the kind of ones
where they all sort of swarm together
are better for like bug hunting for
example. Um and so like that's like
really cool to see that like if we can
make the primitives very lego like um
then people can put them together to
solve things at a slightly higher form
factor which is more like an
architecture or like a strategy. Um and
they get much more like interesting
results out of that. Um, and that's like
really exciting to see because it also
suggests that you can actually hill
climb at u multiple layers um of
abstraction.
&gt;&gt; How do you know if an agent is
successful? How do you measure success
for an agent?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean there's like evals and
stuff like that which everyone has
talked about like ad nauseium. One
direction that we we really like is like
uh this kind of verifiable outcome. Um
we've been somewhat opinionated on that
one and it's almost like in the absolute
end state of you know we talked a little
bit about what's what's a platform the
end of things. Um, going from that
philosophy, it's like our kind of
principle of like maybe the end state of
some of these things is that everything
should kind of compress down to an
outcome and like a budget and that's
probably like about it. Um, and
everything else should be figured out
for you to kind of resolve exactly
across those parameters. And so for us,
we're kind of yes, we still have evals.
We have a lot of these other things that
we measure um that are domain specific
like you know some coding evals would be
like you might want to measure like just
the actual PR getting merged. Those are
more verifiable. But as we get to the
place where um you know like an outcome
is actually a spec that you are just as
a human able to define and our ability
to interpret that and regrade itself
over and over is closer to what we care
about.
&gt;&gt; Claude, make me a billion dollars. Your
budget is $10.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. [laughter] And then say no
mistakes go. Exactly.
&gt;&gt; Maybe mythos could do that. Yeah.
Um, and then one of the things that
we've been running into that I'm curious
if you have a solution for is agents
like get outdated pretty quickly. Um,
sometimes because there's no human
attached to them. Sometimes like they're
just running an old model or there's an
old or in an old architecture or
whatever.
And it feels like there needs to be a um
end of life cycle for agents. like we've
talked about having like a little like
funeral for them and like having like a
little page on our website that's like
here's all the decommissioned agents and
stuff.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; like h how do you manage especially in a
in a really big company? How do you
manage the all the agents that are like
sort of out there but and maybe they're
like in Slack like pinging stuff once a
week but you're like this is super
stale. How do you make sure that uh you
you retire them as quickly as you are
making them? So, one of the things we
have actually done is we have made
skills that help you do things like
upgrade to a new model when a new model
comes out, right? Like we've actually
put a good amount of work into making it
easier to do exactly what you're talking
about. Um, and I think maybe some of the
most like AGI pill people are like
running agents that are monitoring their
agents to see if their agents are, you
know, like outdated and in need of that
sort of stuff. But I think for you know
the way that we like to talk to
customers who ask us this question I do
think the the most interesting
instantiation of this is there's a new
model and now I need to go upgrade my
agent or maybe be done with those agents
because you know the new model in
enables me to build agents that are way
more powerful and do more interesting
things than the old agents did right but
I think that upgrade process and that
migration process is like something
people have had to wrap their heads
around as like it's like a breaking
change and and I have to like put actual
energy into making that work. Um, and
obviously, sorry to talk about evals,
but like if you have evals, this process
is easier and things like this, but um,
I do think that's one of the things
we've tried to do is how do we give you
skills and how do we give you the right
like just tools to make that process
easier. Um, and then you could go be
agilled and choose to actually automate
more of that with more agents.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, a year from now, we're back at code
with Claude. Um, where do you think the
platform will be? What will I be able to
do? Uh, and how it will be different
from what I can do today.
&gt;&gt; Do you want to go first?
&gt;&gt; You can go first. A year is a long time.
It's in this in this industry
especially.
&gt;&gt; How close are we to Claude making a
billion dollars? [laughter] That's
really what I'm asking.
&gt;&gt; Probably won't be sitting here. Yes.
Yes. [laughter] We will be asking for
this.
&gt;&gt; I mean, yeah. like we want to get closer
and closer to that that state where I
think we we kind of okay so a couple
things I think in a year from now I mean
one thing that we'd love to get really
really close to is actually that kind of
like simplicity and this might be a
significantly higher order of
abstraction I don't know what the form
factor will look like or whatever but
the kind of parameters we will care for
from users will be that outcome and of
course it has to be verifiable there are
some parameters that that have to be
restrictive and and the budget and I
think like we'd want to experiment with
with directions where cloud actually
gets so good at understanding itself
it it figures out what model you should
be using. It figures out how to spin up
all the sub aents. I actually don't
think you need to think so much about
harness engineering in that world today.
You know, you don't have to think so
much more aggressively about like tool
construction for example. Like we've
kind of made that a little easier and
you get to delete a little bit of that
scaffolding
&gt;&gt; less prompt engineering too.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And I
think if you just keep going up that
stack like today a lot of the innovation
is happening at this kind of like like
really high level almost like harness
architecture like level which is really
fun but I think a lot of that honestly
also kind of goes away where you almost
like don't have to think so much about
like model selection. you don't have to
think so much about what kind of
architectures are there because we
probably could have would have like gone
through enough iterations with Claude
where Claude is actually able to
understand itself enough um that it can
almost like write itself on the fly to
figure out what is necessary in that
kind of like two parameter world of like
outcome and budget. I don't know that
we'll get there like in a year, but I
feel like we might be able to do like
the outcome part of that with like maybe
you know some bars of some error bars on
on the budget side.
&gt;&gt; Really cool.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Um okay, that was really cool. I'm
going to give you a slightly more boring
answer, which is in that world, if
Claude is like on the fly, your agents
on the fly are like becoming what they
need to become in order for you to do
what you're trying to do, the platform
has to like seriously scale
&gt;&gt; that it does.
&gt;&gt; Um, and so I do think some of this will
be what are the right abstractions that
actually enable that, right? Like
somewhere on the primitive to higher
order realm, right? But I do think so
much of what our team is going to be
doing is making sure that the tokens
that people want to come in and out of
claude um are going to be able to come
in and out of cloud because our system
is scaled to meet not just the demand
but like in that world where it's just
like you have agents that are like
literally constantly running and
recreating themselves and and doing this
sort of work. Um you just need a system
that you know can handle longunning
requests, can handle a bunch of
differently shaped things. And so I
think for us it's going to be I never
want the ability of the platform itself
to be able to scale to get in the way of
what people would otherwise be able to
accomplish with these things. And so I
think that's something that's going to
probably be very front of mind when
we're talking in a year.
&gt;&gt; Awesome. I'm excited. Um thank you so
much for joining. I really learned a
lot.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having us.
Oh my gosh, folks. You absolutely
positively have to smash that like
button and subscribe to AI and I. Why?
Because [snorts] this show is the
epitome of awesomeness. It's like
finding a treasure chest in your
backyard, but instead of gold, it's
filled with pure unadulterated knowledge
bombs about chat [snorts] GPT. Every
episode is a roller coaster of emotions,
insights, and laughter that will leave
you on the edge of your seat, craving
for more. It's not just a show, it's a
journey into the future with Dan Shipper
as the captain of the spaceship.
So, do yourself a favor, hit like, smash
subscribe, and strap in for the ride of
your life. And now, without any further
ado, let me just say, Dan, I'm
absolutely hopelessly in love with you.
