原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DGtUUMNYLcc

Welcome back to another episode of
Decoded. Today, I'm back with YC
visiting partner Francois Shaard to talk
about one of the most interesting recent
trends in AI research, recursion.
Specifically, we're going to talk about
how we can improve a model's reasoning
performance by using recursion at
inference time rather than by just
making the model bigger and bigger.
There were two papers that made the
power of this approach really clear in
2025. One on hierarchal reasoning models
or HRM and another on tiny recursive
models, TRM.
Franis, thanks for joining us. Um, can
you tell us a little bit about these two
models and what was so interesting about
them?
&gt;&gt; Sure. I guess, um, to set up a little
bit of a foundation, uh, you already did
an amazing lecture on RNN's and LM in
one of the previous videos, so I won't
overdo it, but just to give the cliff
notes, um, an RNN is just a model that
you, uh, recursively call again and
again and again. um on itself and we
were very much in the belief that this
was required to get to AGI. Um peak RNN
use was probably until 2016 with Alex
Graves um Nur's keynote which is just
fantastic and all his his his adaptive
comput time work.
&gt;&gt; So this is about 10 years ago people
were working on these models. This was
in the era of LSDMs and LSTMs with
attention.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And uh depending which professors
you talk to uh before attention was
invented.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. Totally. Yeah. Um and uh and I
think what really was the the the
limiting step on uh RNNs in general was
this thing called back prop through time
where you have to you roll out the model
and then to update the weights you need
to approximate the gradient and you step
back back back and you keep rolling out
and as the the model um gets uh bigger
and bigger and as you roll out for more
and more steps then you have all these
uh uh accumulation of errors and the
gradient gets noisier and noisier and
then it just kind of stops to work.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. you have these like vanishing or
exploding gradient problems and it's cuz
if you have an input with 20 steps,
you're like multiplying these matrices
20 times and that causes
&gt;&gt; talking about doing context length of
like a million or like a billion. And so
like it's not even just 20, it's like a
billion. And even worse, you have to
retain the activations at every single
step. And so like if this were happening
in your brain, you would need like a
million copies of your brain at every
single activation so that I can back
prop through it. There's tricks around
this that you can you can do and you can
do um a gradient checkpointing and
things like that to reduce that issue.
But then you're just like trading off
memory for um wall clock time and and
compute.
&gt;&gt; Right? So now if you contrast that with
um LLMs, the ones that people are widely
using these while at face value they
appear to be similar at training time
they're doing basically this one on
oneot feed forward process for every
input right the the LLM the transformer
block can take all the inputs in
parallel. It's not actually iteratively
going over them one at a time at train
time. So you don't have this
&gt;&gt; needing to store tons of activations
problem or this giant vanishing
gradients problem with them.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. Like it it's actually un
like all happening in time in one shot
magically. And that was like the the
trill or lower triangle trick that kind
of happens this causal mask that occurs.
And so you actually do all all time
steps in one shot. And you forward pass
a feed forward model on all time steps
in one shot and you backwards in one
shot. And it's amazing uh uh for uh
train time in terms of like a wall
clock. Um it requires a lot of flops and
it still requires a lot of the memory.
You still need it there, but you don't
have the vanishing gradient issue. Um
and the what you actually paid for that
you have to give up is this latent
reasoning thing and this compression in
the time direction. There is no
compression in LM. Every single decode
that I do, I still have to retain the
entire, you know, Shakespeare novel just
to like decode a little bit. And in
RNNs, you don't have to do that. It's
all compressed in this hidden state that
you kind of roll out.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So, let's talk about that in a
little bit more detail. Like you refer
to this um inherent reasoning ability.
You know, many people think about LLMs
as doing reasoning. And we're going to
talk about that a little bit later, but
help me understand where you see the
biggest limitations in LM's reasoning
ability or is in terms of what the model
does in an actual forward pass.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And so, um I guess we go back to
chat GPT2.
GPD2 was this uh landmark uh uh
architecture and paper that um basically
was just get next token, next token,
next token and it kind of worked and
like we just watched val loss go down,
perplexity goes down, like the model
just is more performant, looks better,
starts to make some Shakespeare that
actually sounds somewhat plausible,
right?
&gt;&gt; And then we have to get these things to
reason and to actually solve some really
hard problems. And um and I've done
extensive experiments on this but like
if you take uh for example sort you get
you have infinite amounts of unsorted
list and you give it sorted lists you
keep feeding it to the model it should
work right um it's actually impossible
for the model to map from unsorted list
to sorted lists if I have
&gt;&gt; in a one shot basically
&gt;&gt; in a one shot basis it's like it's like
literally that we know a theoretical
lower bound that um for uh comparison
sort you can't do better than m login uh
steps and if I have a list that's 31 uh
uh uh uh uh characters or elements long
and my transformer is 30, I run out of
steps to do comparisons. It's not
possible for me to like do all the steps
that is needed to be done. Um in HRM and
TRM, they use uh Sudoku as an
incompressible problem. Similarly, and
so are mazes. Those are incompressible
problems. Rolling sum incompressible
problem. So when you mention the sorting
algorithm, when I think back to my
algorithms class from college, the one
way you could get faster than n login in
a sorting algorithm is if you had some
access to an external memory cache. If
you had some tape you could write to,
&gt;&gt; then you can actually do faster than n
login by basically selectively putting
things onto this memory. And I suspect
that's you know a key limitation of
these LLMs in that because there's no
external memory tape inbuilt into the
model you lose certain performance
possibilities in terms of how fast you
could go.
&gt;&gt; That's right. And so I guess like radic
sort would be like the most common one.
You like depending on on this the number
of buckets that you have you can kind of
get from n login to order n. You can't
get less than n. You have to touch all
the the elements. Sorry. You have to do
that. And if you run out of um uh um
layers in in transformer layers in your
uh neural network then you ran out of
chances to do that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. So this is just like a tur
this is like going back to like Alan
Allen Turing now and like a touring
machine right like what so what's the
analogy there exactly that we should
think about in terms of LLM's I guess
not quite satisfying how you think about
a touring machine.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So if we let's just talk about
like chat GBT2 GBT2 the original like no
bells and whistles um it's just a feed
forward model and so it's just forward
passing one step and
&gt;&gt; taking an input creating a bunch of
outputs
&gt;&gt; in the Sudoku case um if I have 50
different uh
And it's provable that I can only do one
given this information then and I have
this many layers then that's all I can
do and the cheat this the cheat is the
the chain of thought and so it's
completely true that at test time they
are uh turn complete and you can
simulate all turn computable functions
at test time but how do you get it to
learn it you need to train it and that's
where uh unless you're training it on
humanlabeled uh uh traces uh for which
there's a lot of problems like the
millennial prize home. We don't have the
trace for it. So, we'd love to have the
trace for it. Just doesn't exist.
&gt;&gt; Totally makes sense. Okay. So, with that
context in mind, now let's talk about
these two papers because I think that
sets up a lot of the the contrast we're
going to draw between these papers and
the models that people are maybe more
used to. So, let's talk about HRM first.
Um, walk me through a little bit about
how this model works and some of the
intuition behind it.
&gt;&gt; Sure. So um the the the this is directly
in the lineage of RNN's. There's not
that much novel from like the RNN
standpoint. Uh at least in my opinion,
they do have this idea of uh you know
from a inspired by the brain where I
have like um there's different parts of
the brain that operate on different
frequencies. There's some that operate
at a really high frequency which is on
the low level of the hierarchy. Some
that operate in a really a low frequency
which is the the higher level of the
hierarchy. And the interplay between
those things is really interesting. So
this is like literally in the human
brain there's some like bio inspiration
here which is that like you have like
different waves running at different
frequencies at different parts of the
brain or something like that. Cool.
&gt;&gt; And um and I guess that interpret that's
one interpretation of it of the way that
they they're talking about um you know
classifying these these hierarchies of
frequencies and the way the most
interesting part at least for me is the
way that they train the neural network.
You take in some X, some input, whether
it's a incomplete Sudoku puzzle, uh a
maze or an art prize challenge. Um you
uh do TL steps with the L the the lower
level uh uh module. Then you do go to go
to H. You do that um TH times and then
you have uh N sub outer refinement
steps.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So you basically are like running
through the input with a given
&gt;&gt; uh matrix with with a given
transformation repeatedly on it and
you're doing that through two levels of
refinement and then basically running
that process several times.
&gt;&gt; Yes. So there's exactly three levels of
recursion occurring here. There's the
low level, there's the high level and
then there's the outer refinement steps.
&gt;&gt; And we're calling it recursion because
it's the same weights that are being
applied repeatedly. We're not changing
the weights in between these steps.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Right. You get to recurse on on
the LNET LTL times. You recurse on the
th and the TL this looped recursion th
times and then you do n sub you do this
whole out of refinement step n sub
times.
&gt;&gt; Cool. And so what's the basic intuition
for why that works? Like why does that
produce an effective paper result and
what even were the results that this
paper showed?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And so I mean this got
state-of-the-art um on arc prize uh one
and two. uh this was a only a 27 million
parameter model that was only trained on
uh arc prize
&gt;&gt; so it's like a thousand inputs or
something like that like puzzles
basically
&gt;&gt; literally a thousand task which is
extremely small there is no pre-training
at all this is starts from like
literally tabularasa weights and it can
outperform at that time if we go back
you know we had um 03 if you remember
back way back when um and it d and it o3
gets zero literally zero and got like
something like 70% on arc prize one at
least um at the time which was just a
huge breakthrough and so kind of the the
way you can kind of think this is like
variable scoping and so like if I have
like um you know three nested uh
functions I guess the first uh uh the
lowest level function has like scoped
variables which they'll call ZL which is
the carry that init
variable
&gt;&gt; latent variable in like traditional um
RNN literature they would call this the
hidden state the low-level hidden And I
get to recurse, recurse, recurse. And
then I pass back that ZL back to the the
outer scoped function, the higher level
one. I let that one do one iter. It goes
back and calls the lower level again. It
does this whole thing in a third uh
outer loop, which is called the adder
find instead.
&gt;&gt; Okay. But when you describe it like
that, it seems like it would have the
same back prop through time problem that
you would have at ends. And I think they
came up with a clever trick to basically
get around that. So like what was that
trick that they figured out? And this is
really the the crux of the paper that
like differentiates it in my opinion in
the literature is they instead of doing
what Alex Graves did in all of his
papers from neural touring machines to
uh adaptive compute time um to
differential neurocomputers is he always
backropped through all of the recursion
steps and he was limited by back through
time. So you can only make the model so
big you have all these issues vanishing
gradients etc etc. And what they do is
they they kind of have this uh deeq uh
of method of doing fixed point
iteration.
&gt;&gt; So that's like deep equilibrium.
&gt;&gt; Deep equilibrium learning. Um where if I
um take a batch and this this is
completely counterintuitive as a
computer vision person because you'd
never do this but it actually does make
sense and I'll explain why. If I take a
batch of like imageet or cif 10 and I
forward pass through the model and I get
some loss and I back prop and I update
the weights, I would go get a different
batch for the next one. But what they do
instead is they actually do that 16
times. And so and as you do that, you
actually can see the change uh in your
residuals get less and less and less.
And why it actually makes sense is
because when in the RNN case the ZL and
the Z which are the carry the task
carries start out
&gt;&gt; the hidden states
&gt;&gt; the hidden states start off at zeros.
Those are zeros. Then we go through this
whole loopy recursion three the the the
at least the two loops the two lower
loops t the the TL and TH steps and then
I uh back prop just through the two
modules just once and I don't recurse
all the way back. I do a stop grad. I
stop right there. And then there's a
huge residual and then I don't reset ZL
and Z. I do it again at a different
point in the carry or hidden variable
spa uh space. And so one can actually
look at it as like a different batch
every time even though it's the same
exact X's.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, like the way I kind of think
about it is like the the 16 or whatever
that you're recursing over, it's like
constructing a mini batch not from
different inputs but from
&gt;&gt; like different memory states basically.
It's like across this um hidden or carry
memory access basically
&gt;&gt; and and that math holds and it works. it
follows DEQ directly in the event that
the ZL and the delta in ZL and the delta
in ZH go to zero
&gt;&gt; which it actually just doesn't do and so
we'll get to TRM but Alexia basically
shows that it's just not the case and
you can't actually apply this math um
and that's why it's working that's not
sufficient support for why it's working
we actually don't know why it's really
working um and she figures out that you
actually uh can uh back prop through all
the way to the deep recursion which
we're going to get into TRM in a second.
Um and that actually improves
performance much much more
&gt;&gt; interesting. Okay. So before we get into
TRM yeah on you know on this paper you
know I think there's a bunch of
different ways people have looked at
this right in terms of how they came up
with it and then why this may or may not
be working. One is a sort of
biolausibility argument. Now as you know
I'm usually not super keen on these. You
know, I think machine learning tends to
have a long history of people starting
with boplausible arguments and then
realizing that there's some variant of
them that seems highly bioimplasible
that actually works better. I think you
have example, right? a the classic the
first p deep learning paper that started
this whole um craziness is alexnet and
in Alexnet there's actually this funny
little thing called like local receptive
activation or depression or something
like that where like once this uh
activation fires then like I have this
like you know refractory region or
something like that it actually doesn't
work at all like it didn't work and you
didn't need that and then VGG came out
and said get rid of all that just go
deeper and 3x3 comp and it actually just
like outperforms dramatically and so
like this is always the maybe you need
to do it to get accepted into Nurups and
some
totally you're definitely the expert
here but what do you consider to be
bioplausible and what's not
&gt;&gt; well I think that a lot of machine
learning literature has over overlapped
a lot with people working in
neuroscience and I think it is very
natural for us to ask questions about
how does our brain work because our
brain is like an incredible instrument
that does a ton of computing obviously
and does it in a very shockingly
efficient manner it seems like and so a
lot of machine learning research has for
a long time sought analog from how we
think to understand our brain to work
and try to encode that in various
machine learning systems. So from the
very basic concept of what a neural
network is, it's called a neural network
because we think it's some basic model
for what a neuron is. How certain
activation functions work are meant to
be inspired by certain biological
&gt;&gt; premises.
The thing about them is that often we
use bioplausibility to inspire us to
come up with ideas,
&gt;&gt; but we end up veering away from the
bioplausible to something adjacent to
them that is likely bioimplausible, but
that seems to work better. And
&gt;&gt; something that runs better on a GPU.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. It runs better on a GPU. It's
more efficient in some capacity that is
relevant to how we actually encode it in
a computational system. So, I find
thinking about biolausibility fun and
interesting and it's definitely a great
way to inspire us to think about new
things. But I tend to not be bounded by
boplausibility when I think about what
machine learning systems we should
prioritize working on or think as
particularly exciting other than as you
know an interesting scientific launching
point for a deeper exploration. I think
the the version of this that I find more
compelling is actually that original
discussion we were having around automa
theory basically and and honestly just
actually like fundamental data
structures and algorithms theory which
is that if you're running a complex
algorithm having access to sort of a
memory cache is actually
&gt;&gt; very useful for being able to run that
algorithm efficiently and I kind of
think of this set of hidden states or
carry as akin to a turning machine tape
or akin to the radic sort uh memory Mor
bank where you can basically train a
model to use this memory cache in an
intelligent way in a single forward pass
so that you can get a more efficient
time operation that would otherwise
require some sort of more complicated
reasoning.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think the a point I wanted to
make uh earlier is that like we did this
coot stuff and this tool use thing as uh
ways to get beyond the the uh the the in
the the limitations of of GPT2. And so
the way that we get um we you can
actually I've done this experiment you
can actually if you give me infinite
amounts of uh unsorted list and sorted
list if I h can do chain of thought and
I can do every single step and teach it
to do every single step then I can
actually get it to do uh to do sort and
become a touring machine at test time.
Uh and similarly an even cheaper one
that is much easier to do is you teach
it and you say hey there's this Python
function called sort
&gt;&gt; just call the function
&gt;&gt; just call the function and like that's
the easiest thing to do and you don't
need backrop at all and so um those are
the two hacks now well Franuis this is
solved like we're done right no because
I needed to know what sort was what
happens if we didn't know what merge
&gt;&gt; the chain of thought is not going to
inherently discover sorting from first
principles it's it's finding it from
historical knowledge of everything it's
trained on.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, this is like the the Demis
had this whole thing about like the
ultimate uh test is the Einstein test.
Like go back to 1911 and then like have
it rebuild all the physics up until now.
Similarly, let's just pretend that we
only had bubble sort. We knew other no
other sort uh system. If you chain of
thought it on all the bubble sort input
and output, it will only do bubble sort.
In fact, it won't even do bubble sort
that well. Like so. So, this is the best
situation. And then the tool use, of
course, it can only know bubble sort. I
want to get to merge sort. How do I
discover merge source?
&gt;&gt; And and I think the interesting thing
just to um emphasize here because it may
not have been extremely clear is there
already exists some type of recursion
that people are used to in LLM which is
chain of thought we mentioned earlier
but that is a recursion that's happening
in the token space of the model's
outputs not inherent to the model
itself. That's sort of the fundamental
limitation is that the model can only do
a feed forward oneshot output and then
we basically just have this hack that if
you keep letting it output things then
it can read its outputs and do somewhat
intelligent seeming things with it but
it seems to sort of be upper bounded by
the data that we feed it that you know
the labs are very hungrily buying right
now and not the sort of like inherent
underlying recursive reasoning.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So both in both cases, both hacks
to solve this in coot and tool use um
you're bounded by the bounds of human
knowledge. In the event it's outside the
set of human knowledge, then like you're
kind of so and so that's that's one. The
other you make a great point about
discrete versus latent space. um
reasoning in uh a discrete it can only
output the carry in the case of LLMs has
to be snapped back to some discrete
token space and in the case of RNN's in
general they remain in this uh
continuous latent space which is much
higher dimensional if you give me like a
tape that's this long and you cut it up
into 10 buckets like versus all the
possible values it's much more
expressive to being continuous space but
we can't train it that way because we
actually, you know, because you're
inhibited by back prop through time
largely. Um, and this is why this
paper's so exciting.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So, before we then go over to the
TRM paper, um, let's just summarize
here. What matters most from the HRM
paper that we should take away before we
transition and contrast it with the TRM
paper.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that the the number one
piece uh to take away is this outer
refinement loop. The outer refinement
loop scales. And there's a a great uh
breakdown. Um basically the the Sapion
uh authors, which huge kudos for this
paper because there's so many
innovations in this paper, um didn't
really do like scaling ablations on
every single one of the inputs, but uh
this guy Constantine at Fronto Chalet's
company India actually did. And it's
this amazing breakdown that he put on
posted on uh YouTube that you can go
check out. But um basically the main uh
takeaway is that um the outer refinement
loops uh is the main uh uh beneficiary
is is the main reason why these things
work so well which uh uh Alexia
basically takes the she found I think in
parallel and uh and scales up and and
shows that you can get rid of a lot of
all this other stuff.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So like a lot of machine learning
the follow on paper is basically delete
75% of the first paper as we've often
done in videos here and keep the magic
basically. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, okay. So, so what's the magic then?
Like what's the part that actually
matters in terms of what stays in the
TRM paper and let's now contrast the
core architectural differences between
these two papers.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I think that I guess if I
break it down into uh two major things
is this outer refinement loop thing is
really great and works really well. Um
and that this like
truncated back prop through time which
is back prop through time except I
truncate at some time earlier point uh
called t t back t equals 1 is actually
completely sufficient and so truncated
back up to time t equals 1 completely
sufficient and that's very
counterintuitive
&gt;&gt; which is what hrm found
&gt;&gt; which hm found and trm does a little bit
further rather than going through just
one call to the hnet and the lnet it
actually goes through one full recursion
loop. So if I do it 16 times I just go
back through one time and that is is is
kind of sufficient. And if you do it
with this like um fixed point iteration
thing pseudo fixed point iteration thing
where you keep hitting it with a
gradient at every single step it like
weirdly works and this batch size across
the carry space like actually works.
&gt;&gt; So that part is also kept between these
two models. Yeah, it seemed like another
thing that changed was having these this
sort of double layer of like, you know,
higher order thinking and lower order
thinking. It seems like it collapsed
that down into just a single one. What's
the intuition there and how does that
actually work in the TRM paper?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, it's interesting. Um, she
actually ablates having two separate
networks versus just having one. I guess
the more important space is the variable
scope is that you should have low-level
features and high level features but the
same network and so the the the best
performance
&gt;&gt; the same network can extract both
basically
&gt;&gt; yeah you weight share between the lnet
and the hnet and it's just called net
and and you do just one transformer
layer versus the four like they do in
sapient and just whittle it down to one
and do more of a
but you keep ZL and Zh to be distinct
and separate and she she calls it X and
Y which I found very confusing
Z XYZ which is very confusing and it's
just like Zh and ZL is just cleaner.
&gt;&gt; So if you read the paper Y is actually
like latent space. It's like it's like Z
basically
&gt;&gt; and it is not a label which really threw
me.
&gt;&gt; Uh but anyway, so I I we'll go through
some code here and uh I'll walk you
through it. So I replaced all of her
nomenclature and used the the sapient
notation which is much cleaner and and
more straightforward to me at least.
&gt;&gt; Okay, cool. Now before we you know dive
into the the code for a sec like in
terms of how these TRM actually work you
know it's pretty interesting because
these this recursion advantage now gives
you a bunch of advantages over
transformers where rather than having
you know 500 or a thousand or a million
or whatever transformer layers and
having tons and tons of parameters. You
get compute depth basically without this
parameter depth. Um and the optimization
proc process looks like more of like an
iterative um kind of like expectation
maximization algorithm. You want to talk
about how that worked in the TRM paper
because I thought that was also pretty
interesting.
&gt;&gt; Um so both of them kind of had the same
kind of uh um EM feeling thing where
like we uh update ZL condition upon the
input X and Z. Yep.
&gt;&gt; Z the last Zh Tminus one let's say. Um,
and then we keep updating ZL, ZL, ZL,
ZL, ZL, and we keep updating it. And
then we go holding, we update Z
condition upon uh ZL, and actually it's
just ZL. It's not even X. And then we
just update Z. And uh, and the way to
think about ZL and Z is ZL is like your
uh, local scoped variables that are just
being overwritten and updating,
updating, updating. And then Z and Aelia
makes this point, sorry, Aelia, Alexia
makes this point. Um that is uh that is
a candidate uh answer a proposed latent
answer that is just an embedding space
away uh one uh MLP lookup away from the
true answer.
&gt;&gt; So you're kind of like emming just to
like zoom out a little bit. you're
you're kind of maximizing the
probability of the correct, you know,
information stored in your memory
&gt;&gt; conditioned on a given output and
maximizing the right output conditioned
on the information stored in your memory
quote unquote
&gt;&gt; in parallel. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And like that optimization algorithm
leads to you ultimately
&gt;&gt; learning a recursive method that stores
the right information to this local
memory basically and then outputs the
right thing. It really like if we
actually think of Sudoku, it's actually
a really natural way to think about
what's actually happening under the hood
where Sudoku is an incomplete puzzle.
You can't guess every cell at any one
time. You can actually it's designed
where you can only guess one or two
cells based on the available
information. So it's not it's an
incompressible problem. You actually
can't do it unless you're just randomly
guessing and guessing and guessing which
is uh a very high combinatoral space.
And so what uh the ZL is doing is is
some type of let me try this, try that,
do some computation, think about things
and and then it proposes and then we go
to condition upon like something that it
may have found. It sends it to Z. Z
fills it in and now we have a little bit
more of of a filledin pseudo puzzle.
&gt;&gt; And the training process is training the
algorithm to know to do that, right?
It's like it's maximizing that. It's
like, oh, this strategy for what you
save tends to lead to correct outputs
&gt;&gt; without chain of thought.
&gt;&gt; Without chain of thought.
&gt;&gt; That's the most important part is like
if we had Sudoku and we didn't know how
to solve sudoku because like we were
just, you know, dumb homo sapiens that
didn't know how to solve sudoku like it
would just have solved it.
&gt;&gt; And that's why it's cool because it
actually is able to discover things
without being teacher forced via chain
of thought.
&gt;&gt; Right. Interesting. Yeah. Should we look
at some code?
&gt;&gt; Let's do it.
&gt;&gt; Okay, let's dive in. And I would love to
see what these papers or models look
like just distilled down to their core
essence. I know there's lots of details
in how you train them, but kind of the
core training algorithm. And it'd be
great to contrast the two methods.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So I mean they're remarkably
similar. Um and so largely one is and
learning one is learning the other, but
basically you start out with some Z and
ZL that are just zeros. Yep.
&gt;&gt; Um you have some input embedding space.
we go from x raw to x which is the maze
state or whatever it is uh initial maze
state and then with nrad uh you don't
pass any gradients back through this you
&gt;&gt; so this is the trick basically to not
back back prop time
&gt;&gt; here are two of the three recursion
levels so you have this is like the the
the do for for for simplicity but I hit
zl
uh t- low times and then uh once for
modulo t low then I hit the Z and then I
do it again again and like you said I'm
updating ZL conditioned upon Z and X
right
&gt;&gt; and then I update Z conditioned upon ZL
&gt;&gt; right so this is the like expectation
maximization style
&gt;&gt; exact approach yeah and then you don't
really need this this is like just for
cleanlin cleanliness to show clearly
that there's no gradients occurring
above this line
&gt;&gt; just freezing the weights past that
&gt;&gt; exactly and then I hit ln and hnet one
more time and then
&gt;&gt; which is the same thing as up above so
this is just okay it's literally just
the no grad thing running one more
Exactly. Yeah. And just make it really
clear and then there you go. And that's
your HRM model.
&gt;&gt; Cool.
&gt;&gt; And they use quite simple
&gt;&gt; two two and two is completely uh uh
sufficient. Um if you actually go much
higher the uh Constantine showed very
clearly that it doesn't actually help.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; so that's two of the three recursions.
You said the third happens in the actual
&gt;&gt; the third is in the train loop and at
the test loop. They both have this um M
test or end supervision which uh uh
Alexia calls deep supervision. They call
it adder refinement steps. It's just
whatever you want to call it, call it n
sub.
&gt;&gt; And so you do this n subtime times
during training and then during test
time there's a different hyperparameter
for how many times it recurses over each
model which is m test. Basically
&gt;&gt; they're actually the same. And so the
these this and this we can probably just
call this the same.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um and uh but it's it's it's the same.
And if you actually uh Constantine does
a good job of this. If you actually
train um on 16 and you test on only one,
you get like sevens of the performance
or like almost all the performance. So
it's actually quite interesting that
this is just a redund too much compute
and it doesn't actually help you all
that much. Um so setting this to one is
actually like
&gt;&gt; but presumably for like more complicated
problems having more test time compute
is still useful is like the reason you
would set it up this way.
&gt;&gt; For sure. And so we call our HRM, we get
some loss, we backrop through just the
those two little uh parts here, and then
we step, we zero out the gradient, but
we do not update uh Z and ZL. These are
still the same in it. So that's the
really important detail there. Um and
then so we go back, we pass in the Z and
the ZL from the previous one. So now
this is actually not the same batch,
&gt;&gt; right?
&gt;&gt; Because we have updated uh Z and ZL. So
it's in a different part of the latent
space.
&gt;&gt; Cool. Yeah. And that's the key like mini
batch construction through memory space
concept. Yeah. Cool. Exactly. And then
at test time it's simply the three
loops. So there's your outer refinement
loop uh which turns out like just at
train time train time recursion was
important but test time recursion was
actually not that important. Uh which is
kind of kind of counterintuitive. And
then the HRM inside that has your two
other loops.
&gt;&gt; Makes sense.
&gt;&gt; And and that's it.
&gt;&gt; So pretty simple. Now that
&gt;&gt; the only two changes, the main two
changes here is that they collapse lnet
and hnet into just net.
&gt;&gt; Great.
&gt;&gt; They and it's important detail. These
are four transformer layers. This is
four transformer layers and this is just
one transformer layer.
&gt;&gt; Uh and uh Alexi actually shows that
going deeper actually didn't help.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And actually on some tasks it was
just the feed forward net actually
worked just as well as a transformer
there, right? It was like on sudoku I
think.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, sudoku. MLP actually outperformed
the the attention. it was um it scored
zero on the maze. Uh the MLP scored zero
on the maze. And so there's it's not
clear it's not obvious that uh the
transformer is always better. Um so
there's the weight sharing and then
instead of going back just the one two
uh the h this back propping through just
these two you actually back prop through
one latent recursion step all the way
through one latent recursion step. So
let me just walk through this a little
bit. So we have the same thing here.
&gt;&gt; Same starting point. Yeah,
&gt;&gt; it's mainly the same thing here. We're
doing this uh six times uh and then we
we go uh one more time here and then we
do our deep recursion. This is the outer
loop uh uh n sub uh times and so again
we have the ngrad, we have the detach
and then this is where it's different.
So I I am calling this latent recursion
after the detach.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So it's one full recursive loop is
happening here. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And so that's the main uh difference in
the optimization. Otherwise, it's
effectively the same
&gt;&gt; and then it outputs and then you're good
to go and you train it uh exactly as
same way before
&gt;&gt; and then at test time it's the same
thing uh again and so largely the same.
&gt;&gt; Cool. And so in many ways it's sort of a
simplification, right? You're collapsing
certain parts of it. You're simplifying
this net architecture. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; It's slightly more complicated along
this backpack through time, this back
back prop through time part because
you're actually backropping through more
than you did before, but it's like
taking a bunch of lessons from the first
one and basically simplifying most of
it,
&gt;&gt; which is actually why she need I think
is why she needs to make the model
smaller. And so it's a 28 million
parameter model for HRM. Now she brings
it down to a 7 million perimeter model.
It actually gets from 70% to 87% on uh
um on ARP prize uh one and uh and does
actually quite well on ARP prize 2 as
well. And so um yeah so she makes this
the model model you know three four
times smaller um but because it has that
recursion um it it actually outperforms
and there is one like there's this uh
researcher named Melanie Mitchell that
writes this book uh uh talking about
this very phenomenon which is like it is
um sufficient not necessary to go uh
bigger and get better performance um and
it is sufficient and not necessary to to
add more recursion
&gt;&gt; and So where I'm really excited is what
happens if you do both,
&gt;&gt; right?
&gt;&gt; And you're still limited by back prep
through time. Even uh Alexia is is
limited by backrop that last step. Um
from a memory perspective for sure. Um
and so if you can make the model really
big and you have lots of recursion and
we do something else other than back
proper time, uh then we can get exact
all the benefits of this and all the
benefits of the giant LLMs and then you
can get some crazy stuff. So now to wrap
up, why don't we talk a little bit about
the bigger picture? What does this mean
for the field of AI research? How should
people think about where these models
fit into the current span of research
happening, especially given that it
seems like a bit of a departure from a
lot of the methods that people are used
to hearing about and increasingly seeing
in products that people use.
&gt;&gt; Well, I think for one uh this from the
arguments that Schmid Huber makes and
that we've talked about today, recursion
is important and it's not going away.
And it clearly the benefit is here of
adding recursion into models and you've
seen things like the recursion uh
language models out of Google um that
are pretty powerful and cool. Um and so
uh that's that's definitely one piece
that's I don't think going away anytime
soon. Um the next one is this add a
refinement loop like back tbt
like t equals one truncated back wrap
through time t equals 1. I think that
that is a really powerful idea and the
fact that that works so well. Uh we have
yet to really explore that extremely uh
uh really understand what's happening
there. Um and then the third is that
idea of like okay we know that recursion
works. We have these tiny recursive
models that are seven million
parameters. can solve a
&gt;&gt; hundred million 100 billion hundred
billion trillion model can't solve
trained on the entire internet and a 7
million parameter wins like the right
answer is to like take the amazingness
here and take the amazingness here which
probably is already in Gemini already or
some of these these it might be at least
in some part um but when you when you
take um the benefit of both these TRM
and these giant models and you actually
slam them together, I think that it's
just going to take off and it's going to
be really huge.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. One of the things that's really
interesting about these TRMs and HRM is
they're not general purpose models,
right? These were task specific models,
right? The model trained to do Sudoku
cannot do ARC price inherently. It has
to be trained on the ARP price set to do
so versus the LMS that are used on these
tasks are general purpose models that
maybe get some additional fine-tuning
data or in context learning data on
those tasks. And so I think that's where
the interesting overlap might come is if
you can make these more general purpose
agents that
&gt;&gt; can somehow be general purpose in the
way that the sort of next token
prediction algorithm has given us and do
more complex reasoning to achieve that.
Seems like you can have really efficient
architectures to do scaled up reasoning.
&gt;&gt; Right. A lot of the view of what these
LMS are doing is finding really amazing
embedding representation spaces. Yes.
&gt;&gt; But reasoning inside that that space is
actually not done all that much.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It's it's always through the token
space.
&gt;&gt; Go through the token space. And so like
what you can imagine is we found mapping
from token space or from vision from
pixels some really cool latent space
where like things are just nicely
semantically separated and we can you
know makes it really easy for downstream
tasks to do. But now in that space use
this like tiny reasoning models use some
some type of uh recursion inside that
and train those those those that model
on that a little small model on that
reasoning space. I think that's really
going to work.
&gt;&gt; Prince, thanks so much for breaking it
all down for us. See you all on the next
episode of Decoded.
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
