原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VIF5Fm8NdE8

We couldn't have got more square in like
the bullseye of Microsoft. They turned
the entire company against us.
&gt;&gt; This is James Everingham, former head of
engineering at Instagram with experience
across many companies, including preIPO
Netscape.
&gt;&gt; People were going to use a superior
solution, right? Nope. Microsoft's like,
watch this. It's not a technology war.
It's a distribution war.
&gt;&gt; At Instagram, he worked closely with the
CTO and co-founder, Mike Kger.
&gt;&gt; Mikey brought me in. The engineering was
hitting about 100 people. It's a common
place where teams start to break.
&gt;&gt; He shared many interesting stories
across his 30-year career.
&gt;&gt; I remember telling my product partner,
Kevin Wheel, at the time, hey, I think
I'm going to go do this. And then like
the next day, he comes in, he goes, I
think I got to go do this, too. What?
&gt;&gt; When you look back on your whole career,
is there any career regret?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, there's a lot, actually.
&gt;&gt; Here's the full episode.
I kind of got kicked out of college when
I was uh uh just starting out when I was
18, but they hired me two weeks later as
a full-time computer scientist. Like um
&gt;&gt; and that's good.
&gt;&gt; No, this was like early in my career
like you know like I was 18. I was in
college. I didn't go to my classes. I
was just programming my computer. Um the
library library computer information uh
at Penn State started using my software
that I uploaded.
Um, and uh, they learned I was local, so
they they actually had me come in and
uh, they wanted me to come in and
actually help them with migrating all
their mainframe stuff to PCs. Meanwhile,
uh, the computer science program, I
didn't go to any of my classes, so they
kicked me out.
But totally like the left hand, not
knowing what the right hand was doing,
like they they were like, "Hey, we want
to offer you a full-time staff
position." And I was like the first
person hired at the university in over
50 years without a degree in a full
staff position. I had to call up my mom
and tell her this, you know, like, "Hey,
I got bad news and good news." And she
start crying, you know, like when she
learned I got kicked out.
&gt;&gt; So, am I understanding correctly? They
they booted you as a student and then
they hired you as a full-time.
&gt;&gt; They full-time kicked me out. They sent
me a letter saying, "You need to
re-evaluate your educational goals so
you can reapply later." But like you I
literally got a 0.0.
&gt;&gt; Oh my god.
&gt;&gt; I literally didn't go to any of my
classes. Like I was just programming at
home and uh totally, you know, um was
was was working on this software that I
was like obsessed with. I was all night
working and I was uploading it. It was
open source at the time. It was called
Sharewware.
And um the university just randomly got
a hold of it and was using it and they
were like, "This guy's local. Let's
let's get him in. we don't have anyone
with this expertise. So, end up working
for the university for years.
&gt;&gt; That's so interesting. When you when you
got booted and hired at the same time,
was that a positive like a net positive
for you or is that
&gt;&gt; Oh, unbelievably. So, it was like, you
know, I basically was able to go and
like I I did was interested in learning.
So, like I ended up taking pretty much
all the computer science classes that
the university had over the next few
years. And and I never got a degree
because I never took any of the
electives. But I I had like
150 credits of like advanced compsai
because I took them for free. I was
staff. I could just go take argue with
me. They couldn't even say like you
can't go into this class. Some of them
were honors classes and you had to be an
honors student or staff.
&gt;&gt; You didn't get the degree, but you got
the education.
&gt;&gt; I did. I It was more of a Yeah, I I did,
but I I can't say that I learned the
most from school. It was more from you
know uh from from from going off and
like pursuing like my software you know
my my curiosity outside of the
university because you know I worked
there for two years and people started
kept sending me money for this like open
source software. So I'm like I'm going
to quit and start my own company and
just go do this. So uh I did that you
know I left university and started my
first company when I was 20.
&gt;&gt; You said open source and in my mind
that's GitHub. Oh yeah. No, that this
was a very different world back in the
early 80s. This was like you write code
and you would use a modem and you'd
connect to a bulletin board and you'd
upload your code and it was called
shareware freeear at the time. Um and
then people would go on these bulletin
boards. It was like, you know, one user
per bulletin board. you had to sit there
and redial until you could get your
chance to connect and and you could
browse, you know, it was like I'm
talking like 1,200 baud, you know, like
you can almost read the characters and
then you'd find the file and then it
would take, you know, sometimes a half a
day to download you. I mean, a very
different time.
&gt;&gt; I see. Oh, so you you would connect to
some shared server that was horrendously
slow.
&gt;&gt; It wasn't even shared. It was like
bulletin boards were sort of these like
um uh you know I ran one too. So it was
like uh this this system that was
running on someone's computer in their
house um with a single modem and a
single phone line on it and you would
connect to this and then you could use
it. And then the way these com like if
you wanted to send a message, some of
these were like networks and um the way
they would work is they would all shut
down at like one in the morning and
start calling each other and syncing
their messages. So like there was like a
few hours a night where they were just
doing that. This was like early. This
was like wild west.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I can just imagine all of
the security potential security
vulnerabilities from
&gt;&gt; Oh well it was a whole different time.
Yeah. Of course. Yeah. It was it was
security wasn't a thing back then and
you know like that was I was a hacker
right that's how I got into it too is I
was writing software that would take
over the phone systems when I was a
teenager the FBI showed up at my house
and asked me to stop
how did they find you
&gt;&gt; they traced my number I was like a kid
oh there was two things um one they
traced my number but the other thing was
I wrote hacking software and uh I was
like 16 when I wrote this and I was
proud of my software and so I put my
name on it.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. That sounds fun.
&gt;&gt; You can go still search the internet and
you'll find it. So
&gt;&gt; what did it do?
&gt;&gt; It allowed you to completely take over
an operator's phone line. Like you could
uh you could blow using frequencies. At
the time it was called freaking and like
I had a Commodore and the Commodore had
this like multi- sound chip so you could
generate two tones at once and uh you
could basically call and blast 2600
hertz into an operator line if they were
on the right system and it would
literally blow off the line and uh then
um the keypads generated different tones
than a regular touch tone. So you had to
have those and there were a couple extra
keys KP and ST. So you had to have these
extra keys and know then the sequences.
My software emulated all those
frequencies, did the 2600 tone, and then
um had stuff built into it to allow you
to do anything an operator would do.
Like you want to listen in on somebody's
conversation, you could do that. You
could do free phone calls.
&gt;&gt; When the FBI showed up on your doorstep,
is that who answered the door? Is that
you or your parents?
&gt;&gt; Okay. Did she know what was going on?
Well, um, she knew it was for me and she
so, you know, she I was a concern like,
you know, she was the she didn't
understand what a computer was. Like I
didn't either at the time to be honest.
I thought I was wasting my life and she
was like that you're down on that video
game. You're not doing your schoolwork.
I was like, well, I did not know she was
wrong. So,
&gt;&gt; at the beginning of your career,
something stood out to me. I saw
Netscape and I know Netscape is super
famous for the first iteration of the
browser wars and I was curious because
you joined so early. What's the story
behind you joining and what was it like
at the time?
&gt;&gt; Like it sort of goes back to like how I
got to California in the first place is
like I um there was a company called
Borland back in the day that was it was
sort of like where all the good
engineers were uh in the valley and they
wrote Borland C++ and Turbo Pascal. They
were a languages company. They were
being um um they were probably the main
competitor back in the early 90s uh to
Microsoft and uh I learned on Borland
tools. So, you know, I got a call
because of my open source software that
I had. They had seen that I was building
developer tools. So, they they recruited
me to come out and interview. I didn't
think they'd hire me, but they did. And
um uh so I went in there and uh I worked
there for years. And uh when Netscape
when Netscape uh first came on my radar
uh it was through Borland some Borland
colleagues that went over um mainly my
close friend Lloyd Tab who went on to
found Looker uh and uh he recruited me
over and you know it was probably it was
probably like some of the worst judgment
that worked out for the positive for me
ever because Micros Microsoft was just
beating beating us up bad at at Borland.
Like they were, you know, Visual Studio
came out and like they were competing
with everything and we were just losing
market share layoff after layoff and I'm
like I got to go get out of Microsoft's
way. Like I I I'll go join this little
internet startup. You know, Microsoft
wants nothing to do with that. Turns out
that was pretty that was wrong. like we
got we kind of got square more square in
like the bullseye of Microsoft. They
turned the entire company against us,
right? Like they they were they were
off, you know, building uh building the
browser into the operating system and
all these things that were just almost
impossible to compete with. And it ended
up being a pretty intense time. But it
was Borland. You know, like one of the
things I think that's interesting about
my career and I think it's a good
pattern for others is like you end up
building great relationships with people
and company um and uh that opens up
doors and creates opportunity for you uh
later in your career. So Laurland, you
know, building great relationships
there, took me to Netscape, which
honestly even my current company, Guild,
that I have three people that have been
all along that journey all the way since
Netscape with me and we've done five,
six companies together.
&gt;&gt; Wow. Six companies.
&gt;&gt; I Yeah, I think when you're like kind of
going through your career, a lot of
people they give you that advice. they
say, "Yeah, you should network or you
should kind of," but uh and the
immediate action item is like, "Oh, do I
do I start talking to people? Do I start
I don't know, do coffee chats? I don't
know exactly what, but if you were to
sum up your understanding of what good
networking is for someone who's in tech,
what what does that look like?"
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I you know, it looks different now
to me than than than when I was younger.
And I wish I I had this filter when I
was younger, but like one uh I think
people that ask a lot of questions um
going in and are curious, it's a great
way to build relationships in a in a
company. Um when you're first starting
out your career, and I was the same, is
like I wanted good mentors around me.
And um my my my good buddy Lloyd, who I
already mentioned, like he has the best
advice. And it's like look if you want
to find a mentor don't go and ask
someone hey I need a mentor go offer
them help like hey you know how can I
help you and it will naturally uh uh
evolve into a good mentorship for you
like so try to be useful to others um be
curious about others work don't be
afraid to speak up in meetings like just
start just start talking and listening
and um I think that it's important to
build this network and uh or at least
you know don't don't make enemies right
it's like uh I think that there was a
quote I can't remember who said it it
might have been Bill Gates but he might
have been requing is like you know
friends come and go but enemies collect
and uh you know I think that's something
to that like you know build good
relationships and don't burn bridges you
know uh I remember sitting at Netscape
the the people sitting around me like
even you know John G and Andrea sitting
right next to me building the plug-in
interface. He now reports to Tim Cook
running all AI at Apple and you know he
ran all search at Google and you know
the next person you know my my first one
of my first college hires went on to
found a company and sold it for 400
million a few years later like the
people that you're sitting next to are
going to look a lot different in 20
years. You mentioned Netscape and I was
when my research I saw that the company
went from just starting to IPO in 16
months and in today's market I feel like
companies wait a lot longer for for IPO.
What was it like at the time and why did
it IPO so quickly? That was a crazy
ride. Like first off the the rapid
scaling was insanity even by any
standards today. I think when I started
there you know there was about 150
people total. Um but that the
engineering team was incredibly small
compared to that. It was not um majority
engineering at that point. Um I think
within a year we were over 3,000 people
&gt;&gt; within a year.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So I I worked seven days a week
and like there was a time where I took
two days off and I came back in and
there were people sitting around me. I
had no idea who they were. I'm like it
was just like a a parade of people
coming in sitting. It was complete
chaos. So uh yeah. So that went very
quick. But like on the IPO question, um
I believe that was September 9th as like
sort of a day that sticks in my head of
1995.
I was there preipo.
uh looking forward like there are a lot
of it was a lot of less regulation back
then you know you didn't have Sarbain
Oxley or any of these things that like
would prevent you from going public it
was a way to raise more capital um if
you had a good story you could go out I
mean there was a crazy stream of like
the dot bubble is crazy IPO after IPO
right like and everyone was just buying
stock that was a web company, they
didn't care what it was because they
wanted to get in for the IPO. And a lot
of people didn't do well with that. You
know, if you bought Web Van or, you
know, one of these I even saw I even saw
a company that was formed to to ship
potatoes, like it was like potatoes
direct or something. It's like, wait,
you're you're going to charge a hundred
bucks to FedEx a bag of potatoes? That's
your business. But people were like
investing in this stuff. And um so the
they decided to come in and put some
regulation around that which was a good
thing. So you know now and the
competition there's a lot more companies
out there competing and people know that
you need to have real revenue. You need
to be able to predict what that is going
to look like in a year. You have to show
steady growth. So that's evolved into a
space that is a little more organized, a
little more governed, and a little more
sane these days.
&gt;&gt; You you mentioned that you you left your
previous company to get away from the
competition with Microsoft. And and then
I understand that Netscape's like one of
the most famous competitors with early
Microsoft. And I want to know like when
you got to Netscape, at what point were
you realizing, oh crap, we're competing
with Microsoft? It was pretty quick.
Like we got in there and suddenly, you
know, Microsoft put out this um big like
uh communication saying like this is an
existential threat. You know, they
looked at us like an operating system
and people were going to start using web
applications instead of shrink wrapped,
you know, operating systems and uh
software that they sold.
Um, you know, interestingly though, uh,
it ended up the the thing that they were
afraid of ended up actually making them
one of the biggest companies in the
world because it expanded like they
adapted well. It expanded uh, the market
so dramatically that they, you know,
they were able to offer services,
reinvent and do all that stuff. But it
came pretty quick. And uh you know our
mistake was my big mistake a big
learning for me was uh I was um working
on this browser and I kept thinking like
look um we're going to build a better
browser the technology is superior and
it was for a long time it was like and I
was like so people are going to use a
superior solution right nope Microsoft's
like watch this it's not a technology
war it's a distribution war and we're
gonna just bundle this and give it away
and people will not use your stuff
anymore. And that's literally what
happened, right? Like people didn't
didn't care once, especially when like
the quality became pretty equal, right?
Like if you have two products that the
quality is pretty equal, people are
going to just use the one that's the
default. There's no reason to switch.
&gt;&gt; Okay?
&gt;&gt; And that's how Netscape made money. We
sold these browsers, right? That was our
original model. Like we sold these, they
were like 35 bucks. We were growing
fast. and then Microsoft gave it away
and instantly killed all the revenue
going to Netscape uh for the browsers.
&gt;&gt; What was the the internal reaction at
Netscape among you and your peers when
the competition was happening?
&gt;&gt; At first like we felt like we were on a
mission like the engineers we felt like
we were on like this mission of
interconnecting the world and bringing
it. So like we were really focused on
that. So on one way it was validating
like oh you know this is a big space
Microsoft sees it but on the other hand
it was like completely depressing and
stressful. It's like okay they just gave
away our product. What do we do? Um
uh luckily you know we had the Netscape
browser would default to netscape.com.
That was like the landing page and we
had a tremendous amount of traffic. So
we started monetizing netscape.com as
the first like web service and added
like email to it like webmail and things
like that and so that started actually
filling that gap but we had to invent
that on the fly and it was a stressful
time to get there. I I was reading the
Wikipedia page about the browser wars
and I saw like a really interesting part
about the competition. It said in 1997
September they launched Internet
Explorer 4 and on the release they they
put a a giant E logo somewhere in San
Francisco and it says Netscape employees
showing up to work the following morning
found the logo on their front lawn
paired with a greeting card signed best
wishes the IE team Did did you work at
the office and see that that happened?
&gt;&gt; That was literally that wasn't in San
Francisco. They put that on the front
lawn of our office, the one I was in.
So, uh so yeah, they went and put this
big I mean it was it was friendly
competition in one way like you know
because the valley engineers move
around. So there was a bunch of my
Borland colleagues were at Microsoft and
there was some friendly rivalry but like
you know it was interesting that they
did that and I actually know exactly the
person who did that and um um yeah I
believe that was hottie parttovi and uh
when I went to after Netscape I went to
networks hottie and I were uh you know I
worked with hottie directly like he We
we were both running parts of
engineering. Um I actually reported in
initially to Hottie and we would just
basically tell stories about like yeah
we were doing this and he was like he
was running IE so and I was running the
Netscape browser so we got to tell these
these stories back and forth.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So the I guess the story goes is I
mean the superior technology didn't work
for Netscape and the distri distribution
advantage that Microsoft had was too
much and so ultimately Microsoft ended
up winning. I saw that Mosilla was
created because Netscape just gave away
the technology gave away the browser.
Why would Netscape choose to give the
source code away?
&gt;&gt; Sure. It was a bold move at the time and
I believe uh the person who originally
suggested it was Jamie Zinsky and uh um
and also known as JWZ and like he's he's
pretty well known out there. But um so
here was the thing we were outresourced.
We were a small company compared to
Microsoft. You know, we had dozens of
engineers working on the browser. They
had thousands. Like you know, it was
very hard to compete. So, we're like,
how do we completely change the game?
And like, why don't we invite the world
to help us? Like, we're on this
righteous mission to like um open to to
to make inter, you know, make people
connected and share information. So, why
don't we give away the browser? Let's
give it away. Let's open source it and
invite the world to come in and help.
That was the only way we could see of
engaging thousands of developers to to
come help. And uh it was a lot of work
to get there, right? And and it did
work, right? Like Mozilla became the
foundation of
lots of components that had made it into
Chrome and there was Firefox and you
know still going strong. So uh you know
in one way that did work
&gt;&gt; but it was hard getting there. Like the
story is even open sourcing the code. Uh
I mean we had you couldn't even like
distribute SSL source code back then. It
was like deemed a munition by the
government. So we had to not only remove
SSL from the open source version, we
couldn't even like show how the APIs
would work. So we had to obfuscate APIs.
And then we were a bunch of, you know,
young idiots working on the source code.
So we had like swear words in it and
like inappropriate variable names. So we
had to like print out all the code and
go through it with like highlighters and
like censor our own code.
&gt;&gt; Uh why didn't you just GP the code for
bad words?
&gt;&gt; Because you don't know what they are. If
you have a a variable named G G Netlib
breeding like bunnies, like how do you
GP for that? Literally, that was a
variable name. So, you know, so like we
had to go through and and and make sure
like it was something that wasn't going
to get us trouble sharing. Funny story,
I think JW's Jamie um he saved all the
censored code and then he released it
all. So, like it's you can go out there
and find all of the censored code from
from that.
&gt;&gt; Oh, that's funny. What you you mentioned
the government deemed SSL
um like a munition. What does that mean?
&gt;&gt; It meant that it was like um uh a uh a
dangerous technology like if people
could encrypt stuff and and uh and the
and and the government or or you know
legal authorities couldn't ever un
encrypt it. So back then even like very
small levels of encryption were
concerning and we couldn't distribute it
because like people could weaponize it
if they got a hold of it. That was the
theory.
&gt;&gt; And before we leave this part of your
career, is there any any like um I I
guess lesson learned or you know
favorite other story that you'd want to
share otherwise we can go on. Um, you
know, I think the lessons learned there
is like when you're joining when you're
joining a company, like understand what
what the actual who the competition is
and what the war is. You know, I think
that's interesting, especially today,
right? Like everyone's fighting to win
the AI wars. Like what does that mean?
And what is the war? Is it a technology
war? Is it a data war? Is it a
distribution war? Like what is it? you
know, maybe maybe maybe maybe
uh back into like uh your career choices
from that level of understanding.
&gt;&gt; If I'm understanding correctly, you're
saying like as an engineer even, you
should be thinking almost like an
investor like where which company you go
to because there's much more outside of
the technology.
&gt;&gt; That's right. think about I think that's
a good way to look at it is like you
know look if you know when we're young
we probably don't have a lot of funds to
start going investing in in companies so
we invest with our time you know we get
stock uh often as a compensation you
know for our time so like look look at
your portfolio and see where you're
overweighted and you know if if that's
your goal um you know I think that's a a
reasonable way to look at it
&gt;&gt; later in your career I saw that you
joined Instagram and actually when I I
worked at Instagram in the past, you
were the head of engineering when I
joined as a newrad and um yeah I kind of
want to uh ask a little bit about that.
So how did you get hired there? Was it
based off your network like you're
saying or did you go through some other
process?
&gt;&gt; Well this is a great example of um of of
sort of failure leading you uh to a
place that's better. Right. So, like I
went and I I founded a company called
Luminate. And uh Luminate I worked at
for six and a half years. And basically
it was Instagram shopping by the way. It
was uh it was that product but for
publisher sites and we we worked a long
time and we couldn't get it working. Now
one of my board members was this um was
Elliot Shregg. Elliot reported to um I
believe to Cheryl at the time and uh and
uh he was on my board when I sold the
company. I sold it to Yahoo and um but
Instagram actually tried to buy it. So I
met, you know, Emily White and Mike Kger
and stuff briefly.
Um I committed to only one year at
Yahoo. I had I was very good friends
with the chairman of the board. Um and
uh so he convinced me to go there and
help. And uh one year came up and Elliot
actually uh reached out and said, "Hey,
Instagram's still looking. Would you
please just come and talk?" and he
didn't know it, but like I had been
talking to other companies and I had
verbally accepted a pretty large
position and uh but I had to go I had to
go I had to go meet just because it was
Elliot and he wanted me to talk and then
when I so I went in and I met um Mike
Mikey again and uh some of the other uh
people and I'm like oh this is the job I
want this is like this is the call like
the values were clear
um I was passionate I realized I use the
product. I'm like, I actually use
Instagram. The company I was almost
going to go to, I don't even use. Um, I
think at the end of the process, I
probably would have paid to take that
job, but I wasn't going to tell them
that. But, uh, it was a job I really
wanted. So, uh, so it was my network.
Um, it was the timing. It was like my
previous company that I couldn't make
run that like ran out the runway to make
that timing perfect for me. It was my
experience working on image stuff at the
previous company that sort of was also
helpful.
&gt;&gt; When when I think about an employee in
big tech, often times when people
consider starting their own company, the
thinking is either that company's going
to succeed and obviously that's great or
the company will maybe not do so hot and
I'll just come back to where I was. But
it seems like I've seen in other many
careers, it seems like yours as well,
that even if it's not a incredible IPO
success, there's this middle ground
where companies get acquired and then
you can come in at very high roles. Like
someone might have left uh I guess the
the the big tech companies at like maybe
a middle role or something like that.
they start their company, it goes not
good enough for breakout success, but
they're a leader at that company and
they get, you know, hired back in at
like a senior leadership position in big
tech. And I was curious, what's the the
mechanism for like the level that you
come in at when you enter back after
starting your own thing?
&gt;&gt; So, there's a lot of those, but like you
can't I mean, it people aren't going to
bring you in at a senior level unless
you can back it up, unless you can show
your experience. uh even though I came
from a smaller startup and uh and went
into Yahoo and I went from 15 engineers
to a,200
or something um I had previously ran
large organizations you know at Netscape
and you know tell me was even pretty
large so I had that background already.
&gt;&gt; I interviewed Ryan Olsen he's one of the
original
&gt;&gt; I know Ryan well. Okay, great. Yeah. And
so we were talking about Instagram
stories and he mentioned something
really interesting in that project which
was that actually when the project
started
you immediately kind of cut the size of
the team almost in half or significantly
just down to like Ryan Olsson a few
other people so that the the project
could move faster and he said that was a
big part of the project's success and
you were the head of engineering at the
time so I was curious if you had any
thoughts on what did you see that that
made that a good decision at the time?
&gt;&gt; You know, Instagram stories was uh an
interesting thing. Now, like your
natural instinct is like, hey,
Snapchat's gaining traction and like we
need to go do what Microsoft did, turn
the whole company against this. But
really, this is where your
entrepreneurial skills come in. It's
like, hey, what we need is a small team
that can move really fast. So like you
want to set it up so that uh you have
really capable people, you have the
right types of engineers who are very
proactive and then you remove any
roadblocks from them. So you give them a
separate you give them a separate uh
area where it's not dependent upon like
you know uh uh deep deep APIs and
blocking points into other
organizations.
So you set it up so that they can move
fast and uh that if that's so we did
that purposely, right? And uh I think it
was like three months we had
uh it was a three-month project. We went
from zero to releasing stories, you
know, and uh it was a pretty big
success.
&gt;&gt; But I I think maybe a lot of managers
might naively think, oh, competitors
coming, we got to move fast. That means
throw a lot of engineering resources at
it. So here's here's a 20 person team go
as opposed to it sounds like you have a
different philosophy here which is a few
a small talent dense team.
&gt;&gt; That's right with with founders leading
it directly like you know Kevin and
Mikey were heavily involved and you know
brilliant product thinking and execution
at that level as well. you know when you
get you get a small team that's capable
and you give them clear ownership and
you remove dependencies um that is one
way to increase speed. So if you get a
large team they tend to be
interdependent. You start federating
large pieces of architecture and pretty
soon um you know those dependencies end
up slowing you down. Uh so I think the
small if you sometimes it's better to
start with something small and build on
it rather than trying to build the big
thing at the beginning and uh evolve it
over time. And that's sort of what this
was is like let's get it working. Let's
get it stood up. let's get this thing um
uh working and then plug it into the
product and we'll scale it instead of
like what does this look like at large
scale and let's build that from assuming
that um that that ends up often being a
way less efficient way to get something
done and it's definitely a lot slower.
Mikey Kger had like and it was the name
of my conference room um uh uh it was
called uh this value that he said do the
simple thing first. I don't know if you
recall this, but like,
&gt;&gt; hey, you know, like if we're going to go
off and we have a thesis, like before we
go off and just pour the whole company
in it, what's like the simplest hackiest
thing we can do to go prove this thesis
true? And you know, that was sort of
part of the values of that of Instagram
is like what is what's the simplest
thing we can do to go prove this thesis
before we scale it? you were hired as
the the head of engineering and at the
time Mike Kger was still the the CTO
there. What are the differences between
that CTO role and the head of
engineering role and how did you partner
with Mike Kger and what what went well?
What didn't?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, so Mike Mikey brought me in that
the engineering was hitting about 100
people. It's a common place where teams
start to break and uh Mikey's brilliant.
who's actually a really gifted manager
too, but he just didn't want to do that
and uh he wanted to focus on the
technology and and even coding. That was
his true joy. So he brought me in. He
was so the initial confusing things to
the team was like what are our different
roles like you know what who do I listen
to? I'm used to getting directions from
Mikey. So you have to be pretty clear.
So the first thing that we did is like
we wrote our job descriptions and we
published them to the org. And so you
know and classically a CTO is like works
with customers um new technologies uh
works on the product the technology
roadmap
um experiments all of these things
builds the external engineering brand
and the VP or the head of engineering is
usually a people management thing. It's
like hiring um execution um org
structure you know performance reviews
all that fun stuff right and so think
technology uh roadmap for CTO think
process people staffing execution with
the VP of so we published that and we
even came up with like flowcharts like
hey I want I want you know we we put it
out to the team we're like hey I want to
I want five more headcount go do this
project and it's like come to me hey you
know I want to use this new technology I
think it would be cool go to Mikey so
like we we also put like a road map out
there and then it took some evangelism
you know like hey you know to to get get
people to learn where to go for what
they needed people often confuse this by
the way you know it's like people
confuse the difference between a CTO and
a VP of like I get called into a lot of
companies saying hey we need a new CTO
and I'm like why what's breaking and
they almost always describe VP of
problems. I'm like, I don't think you
need a CTO. I think you need a VP of
a very different person.
&gt;&gt; As we kind of wrap up this Instagram leg
of your career, is there anything that
you think I might have missed or kind of
like lessons that you learned from this
part of your career?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, you know, I I I think that the
one thing that I remember is like, you
know, when I came into Instagram, uh it
was a different company. you know, uh,
everyone's nervous when they go into a
new job. And, uh, they brought me in
right when engineering teams start to
break, but like these weren't breaking.
And I was very confused at the
beginning. And I was starting to feel
like I was a dinosaur. I'm like, wait,
you know, this is all working. This
isn't breaking. Like, what kind of
management voodoo is going on here that
I don't understand? And then about 150
to 200 engineers, it started breaking.
And I'm like, oh, wait. They're these
people are so smart. They're able to IQ
their way past like that normal barrier
because what usually breaks is
communication lines like uh you have to
hold a lot of the stuff in your head,
use face familiarity with people. It's
called, you know, Dumbar's number, all
that stuff. But like the people were
just so gifted and smart at Instagram.
Um they were able to IQ past that. Plus
the great thing, the reinforcing thing
about Instagram was the best software is
built by people who use it. And like
everyone in Instagram was a power user,
right? Like and even if you go back to
Boomerang, do you know do you remember
Boomerang? Uh when it first came about,
it was I think it was an intern. Tim
Leonardo I think was the intern. He went
and built it as a hackathon in like
three days. Like one of the most
engaging features that Instagram
released was a hackathon built by an
intern in three days. Like it's just
amazing to work in a team where you're
the primary customer and you're building
stuff for yourself. So anytime you can
do that, like that's awesome. Moving to
the next part of your career, I saw you
I remember when I joined Instagram, all
these very high-profile people were
leaving Instagram to work on Novi. It
was the hot hot project at the time. I
was thinking, "Oh, wow. this this new
crypto thing must be really big and so
yeah what drew you to working on Novi or
the crypto project at at Meta and what
was the impact you saw in it
&gt;&gt; so inside meta I had met David Marcus
David was running um messenger at the
time and we had just met but he's like
hey I want to I want to run something by
you and I went and he was like
don't tell anyone but I'm going to leave
Messenger and this is what I'm going to
do and this is my first meeting with
David and he's like, "I've heard good
things about you. Um would would you
consider coming and running the
engineering aspect of this?" And um he
was selling me this crazy crypto story
like and I loved Instagram, right? And
uh I was like, "You're insane." Like
that's a crazy thing. Why would I go
join that? And like I just couldn't get
it out of my head. And then like the
next day it started hitting me like, "Oh
wait, this is an area for impact." And
uh so I went back the next day and David
was kind of grinning and he was like, "I
knew you'd be back." And he's like, he
called it, he's like, "I call this the
mental virus." He goes, "It takes about
24 hours for to infect people and then
they get it." And I was like, "Darn you,
David." And uh long story short, I'm
like, "Okay, I'm going to come start
this." I was heavily invested in the
mission which was um financial inclusion
and uh bringing bringing safety and
lowcost money movement to people around
the world that needed it. And um I loved
that idea and uh I remember telling my
product partner Kevin Wheel at the time
if uh hey I think I'm going to go do
this and he he I explained it to him and
he was kind of like had that same look I
had. And then like the next day he
throws a 30-minute meeting on my
calendar and I'm like oh he's going to
try and talk me out of this. And he
comes in he goes I think I got to go do
this too. What? like, "Oh, this is going
to be tricky." So, I connected him with
David and I'm like, "Great. Uh, this is
going to be a tricky one to navigate."
Um, but it worked out well and, you
know, we went over and started the Libra
project at the time.
&gt;&gt; How did the project go and you what were
the pivotal points in it?
&gt;&gt; Oh, man. I think it's pretty public how
that project went. Like we uh we weren't
able to ship it, right? like it was uh
there was a lot of pressure on on
Facebook at the time just politic
political and regulatory and like they
weren't excited about us what their view
was as thinking we're going to rewrite
currency it's like not what we were
doing but like there was not a lot of
strong understanding on the government
they're not the best deepest
technologists so uh but they didn't want
us to release this and it was a shame
David tried to do this like the right
thing he's like key. We we announced
what we were going to do that we were
going to work with regulators and
everything. In retrospect, we probably
should have just released it and asked
for forgiveness, but that sort of put us
into a tail spin where we had to keep
rearchitecting the project to be
regulatory compliant
and took us years to do that. Um, and uh
ultimately uh we got it to the point
where even the government said this is
the the platinum version of stable coin
and uh but they still didn't want us to
release it. And I think that's when we
gave up. And uh um we were a pretty big
org by then. I think we're like 3,500
people. And uh yeah, they put all
payments and everything under under
David at that point. And uh uh I think
in a funny moment, David came to me.
Well, I I'm like, I I can't keep doing
this. I'm going to go do something
different. And I I loved David and you
know, very felt like he was a friend. I
didn't want to let him down. So, I took
me a couple of weeks to get the courage
up and practice my resignation to him.
&gt;&gt; And I was ready. And I'm like, I'm going
to go in our one-on-one. Here's my
story. I'm going to give him all the
time, but tell him I need to move on.
And I go in there and I sit down and
David goes, "Well, before we get into
whatever you want to get into, I have
some news to share with you." I'm like,
"What?" And he's like, "I'm going to
leave." Wait, that's what I was going to
tell you. And and I'm like, "Well, what
are you going to do?" and he's like,
"No, I think I'm going to go get into my
entrepreneurial roots." I'm like, "How?"
And like one thing led to another. We
kept talking and I ended up leaving Meta
for a couple years. And I went and
started LightSpark with David because I
was invested in this mission of and
that's what Lightspark's doing and I
love it. It's just an amazing mission of
like
um you know the way I think about it is
finance is the last area for disruption
you know but I do think like the cost
and latency of moving value globally
needs to go to zero because when it does
that when you can move money like
packets of information like you can
stream money you can move at low cost to
areas that need it like it's just going
to be a revolution I have no doubt that
that's going to happen at some point
&gt;&gt; and so you were working in the crypto
space and now you're working in AI. What
or what made you leave the crypto space
if you know there's impact there?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, first off, you know, I'm like a
crypto skeptic. I never was a buyer into
all of this stuff, but I do think that
there it's really good for money
movement and like as a base layer. Um,
so what happened there was like I was
working and and I co-founded LightSpark
and uh David wanted to do it in LA so I
figured I'd move down there.
I commuted for two years down there and
uh and I formed a team and built it and
I was kind of like at a point where the
team was formed. I'm commuting three
days a week. I didn't feel like I was
adding a lot of value uh until we were
at the next level of scaling. So I
talked to David and you know David and I
agreed like hey yeah fine I'll step back
and uh um you know we're we're we're
very good friends so it was like uh an
easy conversation. Um, I groomed a
successor and and stepped back. And at
that time, Meta learned I was free and
they were like, "Hey, you know, we have
a role we want to run by you. We hear
you're here. You're free." And I'm like,
"I don't know what I would what what
that role would be that I'd be
interested in." And they're like, "Well,
what about Dev Infra, you know, like
running all the developer infrastructure
at Meta." And I'm like, "Oh, hold on."
Like
I'm that's my background. Like I'm a
developer tools person. That was the
first 10 years of my career. like and it
hit me like oh wait you know what was I
even doing at Instagram and all these
things I'm a developer tools person like
that's really what I want to do and uh
with AI coming into a picture it was
like awesome we get to go write science
fiction stories about how developer
productivity is going to be and go try
to make that happen with unlimited
resources I'm like sign me up for that
so I would so I came back and uh I love
that team dev infra is amazing and such
a senior team like a thousand engineers
building all of the developer tooling
for inside meta. It was just amazing. I
loved that job. Did it for almost two
years and um the only reason I left is
because I had that observation and I I
had to go start this company like
&gt;&gt; and what was that observation?
&gt;&gt; Well, so you know we built something
internal called Devmate.
Um, Devmate was an agentic uh platform
that allowed engineers to sort of like
go learn from each other and then scale
uh these agents. Uh, and these agents
were working on tooling, not just
coding. They were driving tools and
doing all types of things. And it went
viral internally like um uh we couldn't
keep up with the demand like it within
months like you it needed an entire dev
server per devmate instance and there
are 40,000 plus engineers at meta and
pretty soon
everybody wanted one an instance and
some of them wanted three instances. So
you're like how do we allocate all dev
server but it was such strong pool
you're like oh I see the dynamics at
work here like 40,000 developers is fun
but it would be fun to go do this for 40
million and uh so wow we so we took a
lot of these lessons and we're like yeah
we kind of think we see around the
corner what the world needs for this to
work inside their companies and that led
to the formation of guild. When I look
at the AI space, it it feels like a
blood bath or it's like incredibly
competitive. When you saw the space, I
guess what what gives you the confidence
that you will compete well or you know
what is the niche that you're going to
focus on?
&gt;&gt; First off, I don't have the confidence,
but I have the drive and uh I'll tell
you that much like it's like I I believe
I deeply believe that what we are
building is needed. Um, so there's that,
but like I'm always, you know, I'm
always looking out of the corners of my
eyes of like who else is building this
and you know, who might not execute.
That's just what an entrepreneur does.
So if you look at a lot of the startups
and a lot of the companies, you know, I
think a lot of them are building for
like the future past. And what I mean by
that is they're building for things that
fill in gaps of what LLM will probably
be able to do. Like look at cursor, it's
autocomplete. Now you know LLMs are
starting to get to be able to completely
write code without an IDE. It's like
okay you wrote you built a product on a
bus stop not at where the end of the
line is you know so what's that end of
the line and like what is needed um
regardless of all of that. So what we're
building is a control plane and it's a
it's a layer of infrastructure that
allows you to manage these agents inside
a company. Like you know your agents if
they're rolling around in your
infrastructure you want to treat them
like employees, right? Like some of them
they they'll some of them you want to
have access to things. Some you want to
restrict. You want to report on what
they're doing. You need to observe auto
you don't want one agent just like
tanking your token budget. You need
circuit breakers. You need a governance
layer for that. Regardless of like where
this ends or which model company wins,
you need this, right? So like we believe
that we're building, you know, something
that's needed and in any like scenario
where Anthropic or OpenAI or Meta or
somebody else wins, you just need this
layer. Let me paint you a vision of
where I think like things are going to
go. Okay. So I think a few years like
right now inside a company you have a
bunch of internal web applications. You
have your HRIS systems and you know your
internet and like developer like CI/CD
tools and you know you have a lot of
internal apps. I think there's going to
be a layer of like thousands of agents
that will sit on top of this and help
drive them. Right? For example, you
know, we build an agent that we use on
our own system here that basically
doesn't make duplicate bugs possible,
right? It's really simple thing. It's
like you submit a get issue, you know,
it fires a web hook. Our agent wakes up
and goes, "Let me look and see if
there's one that's like this." And it
just marks a duplicate and goes back to
sleep. That's different than a coding
agent, right? So uh you can imagine
anywhere where there's a tool
integration prompts and evals you can go
into design you can go into product you
can go to HR it's just basically
workflow management in a company um and
that's the thing where we think it's
going um but if that's the case then
you know you're just like people you
probably don't want your engineers
having access to your finance systems
you don't want your finance people
having access to your codebase like you
know all of these things you're going to
need to set up policies around and even
like regulatory policies you're going to
need that especially in a large public
company. Um so you need layers to be
able to enforce that. AI is
non-deterministic, right? Like it's like
you can't guarantee what the outcome is
based on any inputs. If you're building
a stable infrastructure layer, you need
it to be deterministic. So you need to
put a deterministic layer on top of this
non-deterministic technology. It's the
only way right now.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So it's it's almost like this
harness that will Yeah. control plane is
a great way to put it. Control plane for
the agents within maybe a corporate
&gt;&gt; Yeah. environment.
&gt;&gt; Centralize it like right now like you
know you you you see people using these
uh AI agents. We had one customer that
uh you know they they have their
developers running agents on their
laptops. They don't know where they're
running. This is one that that blew
through their token budget. One agent in
12 hours and they didn't know. So you
centralize that. Okay, here's a central
runtime.
You you make it so agents can work
together in a secure way. So you put
bubble wraps around them.
&gt;&gt; Um you don't want these agents just
yelling at your infrastructure, right?
So, like you have to put control around
them, you know? I I I I I use this
analogy like there's this movie
Gremlins. You remember Gremlin?
&gt;&gt; I haven't seen it, but
&gt;&gt; Gremlins. Yeah. It was like this cheesy
Spiel Spielberg movie where these little
furry creatures started multiplying
quick and they just were causing chaos
in town, taking over the electric power
grids. Like AI agents are like that,
right? It's like they're just like once
they start multiplying and they're like
you can't predict what they're doing,
like that's a problem. So you need to be
able to put a layer there to provide
some predictability and control around
that. That's what we're building.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. At this point I feel like you have
so much management experience. So I
wanted to uh discuss this high level uh
management philosophy that I see in the
industry which is that um I see that
this Elon style Elon Musk style of
management is kind of like getting in
the details micromanaging
and I I hear a lot of people who are
against that as well and curious what
side of that you're on and maybe we can
discuss the pros and cons of each of the
approaches.
Yeah, sure. Well, look, I think that
there's different tools for different
jobs. And so what you're describing, um,
when you talk about these two different
management styles, they're in two very
different environments. And so I'm not a
micromanager, but I've also been
fortunate enough to have incredibly
capable people uh to work with. So, you
know, uh you can think of an org as a
top- down org, like where you have a
leader with a very clear vision and he's
hire you're hiring a workforce. he or
she is hiring a workforce to help
achieve that mission. Or, you know, you
can be the opposite of that and consider
yourself at the bottom of the ORC chart
and you're trying to act as a tool to
help that team achieve their vision.
That's the one I am. Now, um that being
said, there are times where, you know,
if your team isn't performing, you know,
and I've worked I've inherited some
teams that were not working well and
things like that where I've had to go in
and and micromanage,
but not for long. You want to only use
it as a tool, in my opinion, uh to to to
fix things and then step back out of
that. I think that our our job in in
technology is a creative this is a
creative job, right? Like you you don't
know what it looks like often. You just
know what outcome you want, right? And
if you're going to do that, you have to
free people. You don't want to hire
smart people and think for them. You
want to just focus them on the outcomes.
You want to like clear their their their
what's blocking them. You want to be
able to probe and like ask great
questions and course correct them, but
if you start micromanaging really smart
people, you're going to lose them. Now,
if you look at some of these classic
examples that you mentioned like Elon
and stuff like that, think there was a
lot of lot of lost a lot of smart people
that weren't willing to work in that
environment. But I didn't understand the
environment. Maybe it was necessary. I
can't speak to that. I've built my
career around hiring really smart
people, much smarter than me, and
getting out of their way and just
supporting them, you know, trying to
make them
give them the space to be the best that
they're at. And uh so I think, you know,
not saying there isn't room for this
micromanagement, like get down into the
details. You need to do that every once
in a while, but like that's not if you
just that's your only mode of operation.
that's your only tool. It's only good
for a very specific thing.
&gt;&gt; When you look back on your your whole
career, is there any career regret that
comes to mind that you think other
people could learn from?
&gt;&gt; Oh man. So yeah, there's a lot actually
and I wouldn't say they're regrets
because like I'm pretty happy where I'm
at and like everywhere led me here. So
like you have to also look back and go
I'm not going to punish myself over
mistakes if you're happy where you're
at. I'll tell you things though that
like I wish I would have known uh or I
wish I would appreciated when I was
younger is like I'm I'm not an intern
age anymore. I'm a little older and you
know time is my scarce commodity now.
Like so back when I was younger it was
okay to like beat my head against a wall
for six, seven years. I'm like I have
all the time in the world. I would like
to have that time back and spend it
well. So, like be sure you're doing what
you love and be sure you're having good
days because that's really your scarce
commodity, you know? So, that's one
thing. Um, go where the smart people
are. Like, I learned this by accident.
Like, I was fortunate enough to get
recruited into Netscape and Borland,
like where all the smart people were.
like going there really helped build me
a network that's just
you know people the early engineers at
Netscape and Borland are kind of like
owning the valley now Mark Andre and you
know so so that that's also good and
that's where I got the best mentors and
learned the most and I'd say one simple
tactical one if you're just starting at
a company like this might sound silly
but I would say I wish I would have just
maxed out my 401k on day one like just
go max out your 401k.
It sounds like like you're going to get
a reduction in salary and you may not be
starting out at high, but trust me,
you'll forget it, but like when you're
my age, that is going to be a giant
amount of money. I wish I would have
done that earlier. So, that's the other
tactical thing I would do.
&gt;&gt; If you could go back to the beginning of
your career and give yourself some
advice knowing everything you know now,
what would you say?
&gt;&gt; I would speak up more. like you know I I
remember thinking being afraid to speak
up because like I was worried that
people would think I was an idiot. Um
but it turns out that like those are the
people now that I notice are the people
that even if what they say is off
they're not afraid to speak up. So speak
up like be curious like I wish I would
haveworked more and and asked people
like more about what they were doing.
And you know, one simple thing is like
it didn't occur to me, it's sort of a
version of go where the smart people or
like I was seven years in Pennsylvania
working uh that's where I'm from. It
didn't occur to me to like go to like I
got recruited into Borland but like in
retrospect it was like if I were an
actor and like it didn't occur to me in
seven years to go try Hollywood. It's
like you know it made all the difference
was getting into the valley where there
was so much opportunity and resources. I
wish I would have done that earlier.
&gt;&gt; That makes sense. Awesome. Well, thank
you so much for your time, James. I
really appreciate it. It was great to
meet you.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Great. Thanks for taking the time.
It's fun conversation.
&gt;&gt; Thank you for listening to the podcast.
It's a passion project of mine that I've
really enjoyed building. Another passion
project that I've been working on kind
of in secret is building an ergonomic
keyboard that I wish existed. And I
finally have a prototype. So, I'd love
to show you what we've built. It's ultra
lowprofile and ergonomic and I couldn't
find anything like it on the market. So
that's why we built it. I'll put a link
to the keyboard in the description. You
can take a look and learn more about the
project there. We could definitely use
your support. Also, if you have any
feedback for me about the show, I'd love
to hear it. Comments on YouTube have led
to guests coming on like Ilia Gregoric
and David Fowler. I wasn't aware of them
until someone dropped a comment. Also,
feedback in the comments helped me learn
to reduce the number of cliffhers in the
intros. So, your comments definitely
make a difference. Please keep letting
me know what you'd like to see more of
in the show, and I'll see you in the
next episode.
