原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NxGe-GzMTzM

The mobility market in general is the
least competitive in the world. Bolt is
the leading shared mobility business. We
operate in more than 50 countries with a
mission to replace people's private
cars. A lot of the taxi companies
obviously saw this as a threat and then
they started blocking their drivers from
joining. When I was in Serbia, I was
trying to sign up the local biggest taxi
company there,
I realized clearly these guys are the
mafia. They don't care about the
customer experience whatsoever. And
that's when we pivoted back hard into
just working directly with individual
drivers. You have raised I believe
around $2 billion. They raised $24
billion before IPO. Do you want to share
a little bit more about what that
capital efficiency taught you?
Constraints really force you to be
innovative, force you to be efficient.
When you're starting a business as a
19-year-old in a small country with
barely any VC ecosystem, obviously you
got to make by with being 10 or 100
times more clever than your competition.
We're here today with Markus Villig, the
founder and CEO of Bolt. Markus, welcome
to the a16z show. Great to be here. For
those of us that haven't heard about
Bolt, can you introduce what Bolt is and
give us a little bit about the scale of
the business? Sure.
Um Bolt is the leading shared mobility
business coming from out of Europe.
We operate in more than 50 countries
with a mission to replace people's
private cars.
And we cover services as diverse as
ride-hailing, car rentals, scooters,
electric bikes, restaurant delivery,
grocery delivery.
So it's quite a wide breadth of products
across a massive geographic diversity.
Awesome. And you know, let's get a
little bit about the story of how old
were you when you started the business,
how did the idea came about, where were
you at that moment in time, and how did
Yeah, how did everything get started?
Sure.
I was born in a tiny island in Estonia
with about 30,000 people.
So I I was growing up there passionate
about science, technology, reading up
on all the science fiction literature as
a kid.
And I really dreamed of becoming a
scientist and an entrepreneur.
And then Estonia got very lucky. So in
2003,
Skype was founded there
with the main product headquarters being
placed in in Tallinn.
And my older brother was one of the
early employees there. So I was about 10
years old and I was already ambitious
about getting into tech. And then seeing
that journey, how Skype became one of
the biggest uh
tech success stories not just in Europe
but around the world,
gave me a lot of confidence that I want
to get started in this space as quickly
as possible.
Uh so as a teenager, I I learned to
code,
um started building websites for local
companies to make some money and get
some experience.
Um and then I I did my first startup
when I was 15 years old
in education tech.
That was a funny experience because I
mean I was in in sort of what's seventh
eighth grade and going to headmasters
and trying to sell them like a new
system to run their schools.
Um eventually I realized it's very hard
to make money there especially as a kid.
So I pivoted a couple years later to
looking at the next idea. And then when
I was just wrapping up high school,
I realized transportation is is the best
place to be where you can make a massive
impact in the next 10 years.
And that's how I got into Bolt and then
been doing that ever since.
That's awesome story. You know, it's
it's it's very interesting to hear
obviously that you always been into
entrepreneurship at such an early age.
Um this became one of the most
competitive markets, but
we did a lot of research on how you
started the business and there was this
dynamic at the beginning where you were
dealing with the taxi operators and then
there was this incident that happened
that kind of changed your perspective
and you decided to go direct with the
drivers. So you want to talk a little
bit more about that and and how that
affected Bolt at the very at the very
early innings. Sure.
So we
always had the idea that for the network
to be effective and for us to provide
the best utility for customers, you got
to have all the supply in the network
you can. So that
any driver that's the nearest by in in
the city can pick you up. Um and so at
first I had no budget to begin with. I
was 19 years old. So I went on the
street trying to sign up taxi drivers
one by one.
Um and that worked for a while, but then
after a couple months I realized
&gt;&gt; What was the original pitch to the taxi
drivers?
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Effectively it was that
today you're stuck under this taxi
company. You pay them a massive fee each
month as a fixed fee normally and
it doesn't matter how many trips you
get, you still got to pay it. So you're
sort of locked up into this company. Um
and what we're going to offer you is you
can download this app which is a much
better experience and you only pay as
you go. So there's no risk for you. So
you can just take this for incremental
income every day.
Um and that actually resonated quite
well. But the problem was a lot of the
taxi companies obviously saw this as a
threat and then they started blocking
their drivers from joining. So then we
had to pivot strategy and then what we
tried to do was actually that we built a
tool and we thought we can get the taxi
companies to join because of the tool,
but then they're going to stick around
for the network. I think there's
actually something one of these a16z
partners likes to
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; likes to explain as a good
&gt;&gt; the tool, stay for the exchange. Yeah,
exactly. So so I think 100% that was the
playbook we did back in 2014
before I think he even popularized it.
But effectively what we did was was we
built a fleet management and taxi
dispatch software for local taxi
companies all across Eastern Europe. Um
so we got them onto the network. They
saw it was great. Then after a while
obviously they realized, "Hey, we don't
need these human dispatchers anymore.
Let's pivot to focus on the car rental
business." And that was a great way to
get going.
But
after a while I realized that it's very
hard if you're limited by these external
partners who are often times slow
moving, very legacy.
They don't really care about the
customer experience.
And I think that
last drop in the bucket for me was when
I was in Serbia. I was trying to sign up
the local biggest taxi company there.
I realized clearly these guys are the
mafia. They don't care about the
customer experience whatsoever.
And that's when we pivoted back hard
into just working directly with
individual drivers in most markets
because that was just the only way you
could actually offer a great compelling
customer value proposition.
So you started the business in Estonia
which is one of the largest countries
I'm in
in in the world, but uh
you know, obviously it's 1.2 million
people in Estonia, not a large market.
You have to think immediately about
expanding and I believe that you started
in Western Europe, but that
was almost a very very costly decision.
So you want to talk a little bit more
about that? Sure. I I think actually
what I've observed is that most startups
are are having the biggest issue going
from zero to one and then once they've
cracked it and you have product market
fit, then after that the scaling is
relatively easier.
I think for us it was the other way
around. So the zero to one in in Estonia
was quite simple. I mean it was a lot of
work, but it was pretty straightforward
and we got the the network going in
about six months and about 12 months in
we were the biggest
provider of of taxi trips in the whole
city.
Um but then what we really struggled
with was how to scale the model. So we
we raised our first seed round of about
a million bucks. We thought that that's
going to be all the money we'll ever
need in the world. Um we were very
ambitious. I mean I was 20 years old.
&gt;&gt; How how did you find the first investor?
Like Uh it was actually mostly local
angel investors with a with actually
Skype background. So that's where many
of them had made their first money and
then they were investing in local
startups.
Um so we thought, "Hey, like let's try
to conquer the world. Let's let's try to
launch in about a dozen countries at
once."
And that was a very silly idea for two
reasons.
First of all, we couldn't really at
first identify which were going to be
the successful markets because we didn't
yet know what are the characteristics
that actually correlate with success. So
we just wasted a lot of money going into
markets where we we actually we
shouldn't have gone to at all.
And second, even in the markets that
were turned out to be good markets, we
just had no idea how to scale. So we
were just wasting money on sort of silly
tactics of how do you get drivers and
then taxi companies on board and didn't
work.
Um and it almost bankrupted the company
in six months.
So then we luckily stopped that quickly.
We realized that going in parallel
doesn't work. We got to go sequentially.
So let's pick one market at a time,
really optimize the playbook, figure out
how it works. Um and then it took us
about 18 months of doing that one by
one. What was the market that you guys
decided in? I mean it was it was a big
market. It was Latvia, right next door.
&gt;&gt; [laughter]
&gt;&gt; So so literally I mean
&gt;&gt; Now you have two powerhouses. Yeah, so
exactly. So me me and my brother, we we
basically worked there. I mean we
literally slept in the office for a
couple of months. Basically I figured
out the model how do you how do you
scale the city.
And then after a while we got a playbook
going and then we we could really start
to scale. And today we've gone from that
to to operating in more than 52
countries now.
That's amazing. And we're going to touch
a little bit more about how you
literally have expanded to pretty much
every region in the world having started
in Estonia, but I want to double click
on
you know, what was a pivotal moment in
this industry which was COVID. You know,
during that time I believe like 80 85%
plus of the of the business
obviously suffered because of this
pandemic. How was that for you and what
what are some of the lessons that you
want to share with some other
entrepreneurs that when you face that
that that situation? Um so first of all
of course it was a it was a disaster
first and foremost for for our drivers
because suddenly when cities went into
lockdown, we lost 85% of revenue, but
obviously that was happening with our
drivers as well. They couldn't really
make any income.
Um and the company was already fairly
large by then. We were in about 25
countries or so. We're probably doing
more than 100 million of of commissions
in in terms of actual lower take rate
revenue. So, it was pretty meaningful as
a drop.
Um and we we pivoted and we did two
things. So, first of all, we realized
that um
food delivery was growing through the
roof
as as was general e-commerce obviously
during these lockdowns.
And we launched that and we scaled it to
16 countries in about 4 months um on the
back of our existing ride-hailing
network. Uh and that turned out to be
quite a massive success story. We went
from zero to well more than a billion of
gross bookings on the food platform very
rapidly.
And we were able to do that because we
had a couple of key components. Um one
was we had these great operational teams
all over
the world and we could just effectively
use them to pivot those people to work
on the food business instead.
And second, the hard thing about this
business on the food side is is getting
merchants on board. But then they were
so desperate to join any network to get
any orders.
Uh so, it was very easy for us to go and
sign up tens of thousands of restaurants
extremely rapidly.
Um so, that that's was our wedge how we
got going on the food delivery side. And
how many countries were you operating at
that point in time? And And did you
apply some of the same lessons where you
rolled it out in a few countries and
then went aggressively or how was that?
&gt;&gt; I think we we launched food in about 60%
of the existing rights footprint we had
at the time
um and it worked out really well.
Um but that basically sort of softened
the blow a bit for the first year. Um
but then the other thing where really
that moved the needle for for the
company was that um
when uh these lockdowns started to end,
uh we were much closer to the markets to
understand from the politicians which
cities are going to open up um and we
were very aggressive. So, effectively we
we tripled our market share that we had
pre-COVID to post-COVID uh because we
were just much faster at the investing
in the right markets exactly when they
opened up on the day. So, when people
were coming back after months to use
ride-hailing, like we were the top of
mind app that they wanted to come back
to.
Uh and I think there's uh there's a
great saying about it that it's it's
very hard to overtake some
somebody in a race when everything is
smooth, but you can you can overtake a
lot of cars in a race when it's raining.
So, Yeah, that's uh I I used to say
that.
I was saying driver, yeah. Yeah.
Um
So,
let's let's touch a little bit about
this because, you know, there's a lot of
debate right now in in when it comes to
building Europe versus Silicon Valley
and the differences.
Obviously, here at a16z, we have backed
amazing founders that have been in
Europe even though we're predominantly
based in in Silicon Valley and we what
we want is to serve as a bridge.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
Um one thing that we've noticed and kind
of like the main differences is when
you're building a business in the US,
obviously, you care about a lot of
different dynamics like your product,
go-to-market, but you don't have to
worry about multi-currency, you don't
have to worry about multi-jurisdiction,
and operating in in multiple countries.
That is not the case in Europe where a
lot of the businesses from the get-go
have to deal with these complexities
early on.
What are the things that this
multi-country
uh barrier
helps you
focus on uh in in in the short term and
in the long term?
I'd say it has its pros and cons, right?
So, on one hand, if you start in a
country like Estonia with barely more
than a million people, uh you have to
think global from day one. So, the
entire tech architecture, how we design
the firm, everything is is already on
the premise that you want to be in
dozens of countries.
Uh and that's a massive advantage
because you're already thinking that um
you have to have this um great product
flywheel where you understand what's
going on on the ground and you
incorporate these localizations very
quickly.
Um and that's very different than if
you're starting in a massive home market
like India or the US where effectively
you're the customer, you think you know
the market well, you don't really need
to worry about these localizations that
much. So, I think that can be a great
strength of these European companies um
that operate in these diverse
geographies.
At the same time though, um when you
actually then look at the arc of history
in tech, um in most of these consumer
internet industries, the US companies
have completely dominated. Um and I
think the reason often times is that you
have strong network effects and
economies of scale in this type of
businesses.
And then the problem is you might have
two equally good companies, one that
starts off in Europe, one that starts
off in the US.
Because the US market is just so
homogeneous, you can grow much faster.
And therefore, what typically happens is
that by the time, you know, 3 5 years
in, the US player is going to be double
the size of the European player because
they've had to deal with all this
complexity and then all these 27 markets
at once and therefore they're often
times growing much slower.
Um and then typically what happens is by
that time they're double the size, they
can effectively go and then just
outcompete them just based on having
more capital often times. Um and we've
seen this pattern just happen time and
time again.
Um and I think that you need to have a
very unique set of characteristics in
your business for that not to be the
case. So, this larger scale player just
doesn't wipe out.
Very very interesting. Let's talk a
little bit about Estonia because within
Europe, Estonia is a very particular
uh country. I think one of the highest
per capita unicorns per capita in the
world. Estonia has been so good for us
as a firm, you know, we're investors in
Skype and we're also investors in
TransferWise. Mhm. Um
and
one thing when I was mapping out the
countries that we were going to go spend
time last year, uh it was very clear
that Estonia was had to be a top
priority for us despite the population
being so so small compared to other
countries.
I'm curious from your perspective, why
do you think this is the case in
Estonia? What what drove this this
innovation and um
yeah, like what are some of the key
ingredients that make this
uh small but very mighty ecosystem work?
I don't know. Well, I I guess it boils
down to three things. Um
one is ambition.
I think that you have this strong
flywheel going in Estonia for the last
20 years of us building great tech
companies.
Um so, young founders coming up, they've
seen the success of of companies like
Skype and then Wise and us who built
into the tens of billions of scale.
Um and I think they they just have this
feeling it's absolutely possible to do
and and their ambition of course is to
even surpass everybody who came before.
And they're willing to work very hard to
make it happen. So, that's that's a key
ingredient.
Um second, I think Estonia has some of
the best software engineers in the
world. Uh and in general that applies to
Eastern Europe. When you look at where
most of the successful programmers have
been coming from the last 20 years, I
mean, there's so many great ones from
the region.
Um and then third, I'd say specifically
in Estonia, we have this massive benefit
of being a digital-first nation.
Arguably, Estonia is the most
technology-wise advanced government in
the world.
Um we've been having online voting for
more than 20 years. Um online taxes, et
cetera. Like every single government
service you can do online at the tap of
a button. So, I think we've already just
grown up in this environment where
consumers have extremely high
expectations for digital services and
we're so digitally native. So, for us to
build these tech companies is very
natural career path.
And you know, you mentioned this point
about recruiting because one of the key
questions that sometimes people are not
familiar with
uh Europe and you know, let's say they
start a business in Estonia is about
recruiting.
So, it sounded it sounded like you
started with a lot of like a great pool
of talent in Estonia. How did you then
expand it to continue to recruit maybe
outside and how did you prioritize those
markets?
I'd say that there's some pools of
talent which are great in Eastern Europe
and and others less so.
Um specifically in terms of software
engineers again, I think it's one of the
best places in the world to hire from.
Uh you can really find absolutely
fantastic product talent there.
Um the hard thing is to is to find
commercial leaders because obviously,
we've only had our independence again
since 1991. Uh before that,
entrepreneurship was largely banned in
most of these Soviet Union countries
under the occupation. Um so, we just
haven't had the the track record and the
time to to build these massive
corporations where people have
experience of how do you scale and how
do you operate an organization with
thousands of employees. Um so, it's
generally been harder for us to attract
execs, but I think that's actually been
getting much easier now every year
because just the economies is booming in
Eastern Europe and there's more
companies you can recruit from.
Let's
talk a little bit more about the point
where you mentioned that
you have to defend yourself
against a player that has been born in
Silicon Valley and obviously the name is
is Uber. You have raised I I believe
around $2 billion. They raised $24
billion before IPO, but somehow,
obviously, you were able to maintain the
ground and that was like a very
interesting dynamic I'm I'm guessing
between the the the two companies. Do
you want to share a little bit more
about what that capital efficiency
taught you and if you feel that Europe
should change that dynamic to maybe
enable companies to to raise the same
amount of capital or do you think that
this is more of a strength of the
European ecosystem?
It's a big debate really.
Um there's pros and cons. I'd say first
of all, constraints really force you to
be innovative, force you to be
efficient. And when you're starting a
business as a 19-year-old in a small
country with barely any VC ecosystem
around,
um obviously, you got to make by with
being 10 or 100 times clever more more
clever than your competition. Otherwise,
you're just not going to be competitive.
Uh and that was the situation we were in
for the first few years where we were on
a budget of a couple of million and and
they'd raised more than a billion. So,
it was extremely hard to go
head-to-head. You had to be
uh just having a a frugality that's
that's really not seen in this industry
ever by any any other company. Or I
guess it would be interesting to double
click on some of those examples.
&gt;&gt; Sure.
It was a It was a lot. I mean like first
I mean obviously what type of talent you
can attract. You got to get in people
where you you're very clear hey we can't
really pay you well in cash but we're
going to make it up in equity and you
are attracting people who really are our
missionaries. They they would don't join
for the money.
Second you have to be clever in in how
do you differentiate. So you can't just
outcompete them on giving more vouchers
because clearly they can just always
outspend you. So you have to be clever
in how do you localize better. And for
us for example
big reason we've been winning all
markets in Africa is because we've just
understood the local customer demands
much better. In terms of safety in terms
of payment methods etc. So these are
things that you can actually compete on
as a small company when your bigger
competitors are focused elsewhere.
So I'd say that capital efficiency was a
big constraint at first but then
eventually that turned into our greatest
strength because if you work on this
unit economics for a long time for many
many years it's extremely hard for large
company to ever get back to that level
because when you're small you can make
these iterations put in the foundations
you need to be very cost effective. If
you already have thousands of employees
then changing the mindset changing the
culture is almost impossible. So so we
actually even though it took us a much
longer time at first to scale once we
had the infrastructure in place then we
were able to raise money and have far
superior returns on the unit economics.
That's really really incredible. Um
maybe just to close the topic between
building Europe and and Silicon Valley.
Um there's a lot of discussion right now
online about the regulation that happens
in Europe. And I'm curious from your
perspective what are some of the things
that [clears throat] have to change in
Europe for Europe to become a powerhouse
because clearly the talent is there the
willingness is there.
One can argue the capital is is is
there. Um but what is it that is that is
that has to change for for Europe to to
be to be able to compete head to head
with Silicon Valley?
&gt;&gt; [clears throat]
&gt;&gt; Well first of all I think that
regulation is a symptom not the root
cause. So I've yet to really meet any
entrepreneur who hasn't been able to
compete with the US because of
regulations.
It's rather they just often bring that
up I think sort of a red herring or an
excuse.
I think the much deeper issue we have is
is really the root cause is the cultural
bit and I'd say it's more a disease in
in Western Europe where I think just
people have lost the ambition.
They don't think they they can compete
with the US. They have this fatalism.
People don't want to work hard. I think
in some of these communities making
money is a taboo. So like I don't just
think you have this sort of
entrepreneurial commercial mindset in a
lot of these markets that used to be
there. Luckily I think that's not the
case in most of Eastern Europe and I
think that's actually why we observe
that most of the new successful startups
in Europe are coming from Eastern Europe
or from the Nordics which I think are
still retaining a much more
entrepreneurial culture.
It's a really really good point. Well
now shifting gears about the future of
Bolt. You know you've been very vocal
about autonomy
and you guys just announced a massive
partnership with a Chinese manufacturer.
Um want to touch a little bit about that
and and your vision when it comes to
autonomy because it's obviously
a key topic for for the industry.
Absolutely and
I think here we we we might have views
that
are are quite contrarian but we think
are going to turn out to be proven right
the next couple of years.
So so first of all of course the big
debate is
what's going to happen on the software
layer. Is it going to be commoditized or
is there going to be winner take all
effects where one or two companies are
just going to dominate the software
layer like like Waymo and Tesla?
Our view clearly is that there's going
to be a multitude of players because we
don't really observe any of the dynamics
that would normally correlate with a
winner take all industry.
So if you just think about it from first
principles or intuitively
most people in the world can drive. You
don't need to have very high
intelligence. In fact like one could
argue that like effectively the dumbest
people in the world can also drive a car
pretty well.
So I think the barrier or threshold of
intelligence you need to to drive is is
not that high. And then you contrast
that for example to LLMs where
effectively the intelligence is
unbounded.
You can go from
novice to Einstein level in IQ or far
beyond it
and I think that you have this massive
returns to just investing more and
building a better model.
In self-driving that doesn't really
apply. I think once you get to a certain
level of of safety and and driving
performance then you will have very
diminishing returns. So there doesn't
seem to be this unbounded sort of
ceiling that that would somehow give
anybody a runaway effect. So I think
that's a first and really crucial point
that's quite distinct from many other
industries.
The second one is that there's a lot of
debate about there being some type of
data flywheel. I think that's
empirically just completely incorrect.
So so clearly the amount of cars and the
data you collect does not at all
correlate with driving performance.
And obviously there's many factors that
go into it the technical architecture
the sensors you use etc. But at least
for the time being it's clear that sort
of this bitter lesson from from ML
doesn't really apply in this sense
because if you have superior
architecture and the right approach you
can actually get to a commercial grade
robotaxi service with a fairly small
amount of data and cars if if you really
need to.
And then lastly I mean empirically just
when you look at what's going around the
world I think the US is very centered on
itself and and they don't allow Chinese
players in but actually you look at
China there's a number of Chinese
self-driving car companies that are
equally good as the US ones
and they're expanding globally and
that's why we decided to to partner with
them to
be the leader in robotaxis in Europe.
And you know this is maybe just to bring
that lens that you just mentioned
between which is like China seems to be
investing a lot in it and very
aggressively expanding.
Um how do you think about the automakers
from Europe because obviously you have
great brands there that are also trying
to push there but do you feel that
um
how does it compare with with China?
Well we we got to admit I think they've
all tried they've all failed and they
don't have the right culture to build
self-driving software. And that's I
think not just limited to Europe but I
think most of these legacy OEMs around
the world.
Um that said I I do think there's a
chance that there will be new startups
emerging whether it's in the US or
Europe or China that will get there
because the barrier to entry to build
self-driving car software has dropped
two to three orders of magnitude over
the last 15 years.
So people often quote that it took Waymo
25 billion to get to the stage and build
the software. But I mean that happened
over 15 years under completely different
conditions. If you start the business
today in 2026
every single line item is down by one or
two orders of magnitude at least. Cost
per flop is down 150 times to train the
models. Data collection is down by more
than 10 times. Sensor costs are down by
100 times.
It used to cost you
70,000 to get a lidar. You can get it
now for 500 bucks or less. And so on. So
so effectively every single line item of
a building this model is is
significantly cheaper today. So we just
don't see it's it's a stable equilibrium
where where there's not going to be
startups that emerge and will get there.
Interesting point and you know just to
double click in here a little bit on the
on the future which is because I think
you brought up like a really good point
which is
you know when when you're thinking about
the companies that will succeed in the
next 10 to 20 years is it the ones that
go full stack and build the car and then
they build a network kind of like the
Waymo or is it where you guys are coming
where you already have the network and
then leverage this
these new technologies and partner with
the the manufacturer.
Well I I think first of all we we got to
realize that this is a physical world
business right. So it's not a software
product where you launch a new model you
roll it out and then a billion people
can use it in a year. There's very hard
physical constraints of building these
cars getting the regulatory approvals
putting them live operating them and so
on. And this is going to take many many
years and reality is that time is
working in our favor because we think
that during this transition period which
might last 10 to 20 years in many other
markets we operate in across Europe and
Africa
there's a massive value in having a
hybrid network where you have autonomous
vehicles and you have human drivers in
the same network for a couple of
reasons.
First of all the peaks and troughs in
this industry can be 20x between the
lowest hour of utilization the highest
hour of demand.
And clearly if you have a fixed fleet of
a thousand cars in a city they're going
to be either sitting idle or or you
can't service most of the demand. So you
need to have this flexible supply that
you can work around those those peaks
and troughs. So I I don't think there's
any way you can replicate that in the in
the short term.
And then the second thing of course is
that like there's still also geographic
coverage limitations. So for the time
being these AVs are not that generalist
and universal they can drive everywhere.
So they will probably be concentrated in
the city centers with the best
utilization and the highest safety
numbers and then you can complement that
with a human network that's able to
drive everywhere else.
Makes sense. And
I would say the the one piece here that
I would love to get your thoughts is you
know obviously ride-hailing is just one
part of the business of of everything
that you guys have built. Um there's
this concept of the super app and I'm
curious how you how you think about Bolt
within the context of of the super app.
Previously we had the founder of Rappi
in our podcast
but it does feel that you guys have kind
of like the ingredients to to become
that and I'm I'm curious how you think
about that broader vision uh as well.
So, I say that um
super app is an undefined term, so
nobody really knows what it is. I mean,
how we uh define it this is that we
think uh that we're very central on the
mission of how do we replace the need
for people to to have their private
cars, and and we build all this all the
urban on-demand services around that.
And um again, there's great value in in
having one brand where you can get your
ride-hailing, food delivery, groceries,
scooters, bikes, car rentals, everything
all in one.
Um both as a customer value proposition,
because, you know, you're building the
history on that customer, you can make
them recommendations, you have the
payment method, etc.
Um but second, also I I think there's a
great business value, because when you
look at the P&amp;Ls of all these
marketplaces, the number one line item
is everything to do with vouchering in
terms of demand attraction. So, if you
can cut that line item out, because you
can cross-pollinate customers to use
multiple products, you're just
structurally going to be vastly
outperforming any monoline player in
this industry.
Now, that said, that doesn't mean you
should just blindly try to launch your
all your products in all your
geographies. So, we're very disciplined
about looking at which are the markets
where we have a right to win, and we
have a clear path to being the number
one or number two in in each of the
businesses.
And if we don't see a path to getting
there, uh we're not just going to launch
the business at all. Because our view is
that the number three position in all
these marketplace businesses is worth
zero. You just can't compete because you
don't have the network effect on your
side. So, we're very disciplined where
we launch each of the businesses.
How do you think about why there's no uh
you know, this loosely held concept of a
super app in in in the US, and it does
seem that it's feasible in other markets
outside the US. Just curious how you
Honestly, I don't have a great theory
about it. Uh my my view just is that um
in many of these uh small geographies,
uh players rather choose to diversify
into products. So, you you're really
focused on one geography, and then you
try to launch 10 products there and
cross-pollinate and really dominate that
market. While um I think in the US, the
market is just so massive that you can
just focus on one niche and and build a
hundred billion-dollar company there,
and you don't need to expand. Um like
that would be my intuition why this is
happening.
Maybe touching a little bit more about
this super app concept is
you recently made an acquisition
for the first time. Um for the first,
obviously, year, decade of the business,
you you grow organically. What what
changed about this, and how do you think
about the future when it comes to
potential acquisitions, and what are the
what are some of the things that you're
looking when you do that?
So, our strong bias is to build
everything internally. Um we just think
that generally there's little value we
we can get um in terms of talent or
technology, etc., in in the core
business, um because already our cost
structure and the unit economics are
superior to everybody else.
Um so, the only exceptions to that would
be if we're seeing really some new novel
technology or or some like great team
for us to build like a new product in
the portfolio that we don't have.
Um but we haven't done that ever in this
context.
Or the other rationale, which was the
first acquisition we did last year, was
if there's like a licensing or
regulatory barrier where we can't enter
a particular market. And that's the
reason we we acquired one of these
companies in Denmark last year. Yeah.
Because honestly, it has some of the
worst regulation in the world. So,
they're just it was impossible for us to
enter organically, otherwise we would
have.
Yeah, another another business that is
um I'm a I'm a fan of it is the the
scooter business that you have. Um you
guys design your own
scooters.
Maybe talk a little bit more about that,
and you know, what what it entails to
build your own scooter, but also manage,
because that's kind of like the few
examples of like how you guys operate
full stack as well. I'm a big believer
in vertical integration. Um
just enables you to move faster, um
build something that's more customized,
um and just offer a better cost
structure ultimately to customers.
Um and specifically in scooters, it was
an interesting arc, because we started 6
years ago. We first bought Ninebot
scooters off the shelf, regular retail
ones.
Horrible decision. Um
they just weren't designed to last long,
and the cost of ownership was was poorly
bad uh when you adjust for all the
charging and maintenance, and so on.
Um so, we very quickly pivoted. We we
got really, we think, the best hardware
design team in the industry uh with our
own uh manufacturing partners in China.
We have employees there, and uh we've
been able to design scooters and bikes
that we think are both the best in terms
of customer experience now, the latest
generations,
and they have the low lowest total cost
of ownership of anybody in the industry
as well. Uh and there's just no way you
can't you can compete with that unless
you spend sort of 6 years grinding out a
lot of iterations of this hardware and
optimize every cent.
Maybe shifting gears a little bit. Um
you know, there's obviously this big
topic
uh about AI and how organizations are
implementing this. It feels like Bolt
it's a great organization to leverage
these new capabilities, either from the
from the software building. Just curious
if you you have a couple of examples of
how AI has helped Bolt
become an even better organization.
Absolutely. Um the first two are are
obvious, I guess not that original,
which is customer service and and
engineering, um where we've seen that
we've now been able to automate more
than 50% of customer care interactions
with better speed and better NPS scores,
and then always lower cost.
Uh and we think that's only going to
accelerate as as the models improve.
Um and second, software engineering,
where just over the last 2 months, I
mean, we've seen tremendous uplift in
productivity since the new models have
been coming out.
Um and the the more interesting pattern
I think that's now emerging is that you
can just enable uh non-technical people
to do far better data analysis or build
their own custom tools for sort of
effectively mini workflows that nobody
else otherwise would bother to automate.
Um so, we're very excited that we we
think we can actually keep the total
head count of the company flat or even
gradually decrease that over time as the
top line is going to be compounding at
at a massive rate. So, we're very
excited that the I I think just our cost
advantage in this industry is just going
to accelerate even further, because
that's much harder to do for a larger
public company than us. Yeah, one of one
of the most exciting areas for us is
like this I think is similar to what you
mentioned, is like the enablement of
non-technical people to now go build
their own custom software, and you know,
that obviously increases their
productivity, and
unlocks this this side of the
organization that was probably capped by
the size of engineers that you had, and
how they prioritized them. So, it's a
very interesting.
One question for you is like you do have
a market in the US, in Washington, D.C.
Why why not go
deeper into the American market? Uh
well, first of all, um
the reason we we even uh look at the US
market is because the rides market here,
and the mobility market in general, is
the least competitive in the world.
And that might be a contrarian view,
because I think most people here presume
that, hey, you already have these
existing players,
uh but the reality is, when you zoom
into the margins, like I mean, the
prices have gone through the roof over
the last 3 years. Everybody's extracting
a lot of margin Yeah. from customers and
drivers. Uh and it's actually uh turned
out to be the highest margin, least
competitive uh region around the world,
really. Um so, uh that that's also the
reason why we launched scooters at first
in D.C. We're we're having great
traction. Our thesis is getting proven
there. Uh and uh we think that there
might be an opportunity for new players
to enter the the North American market
over the coming years as well.
What is the long-term version of Bolt
leading to to your last answer?
I I say that uh act one of the company
has has been building the best mobility
platform in the world in in the human
era, and that still has plenty of room
to compound for we think decades to
come.
Um but then act two of of the company is
going to be self-driving, where we want
to be the leader
all across Europe and Africa, and
hopefully in many other parts of the
world, because I think it actually fits
our DNA even better than the human era,
because
what I find is that most Silicon Valley
companies are not that great in terms of
cost efficiency, frugality, and
real-world operations. Uh and that's
something that's very much in our DNA.
So, we think once we transition into
this asset-heavy robotaxi era, where you
need to maintain them, clean them,
operate them around the world, that
actually suits us really well. So, so
we're very excited this is an
opportunity for us to 100x the business
going forward.
Love that. And uh maybe just the last
two questions, um
there are a lot of 19-year-old young
Marcuses around the world right now that
will probably hear this podcast, and
you know, what is what are some of the
advice that you'll give to your younger
self now that you obviously have
[snorts] all this amazing experience
having built
Um my recommendation always is, uh get
going. Uh there's so many uh bright
young people I meet who have an idea,
they've been thinking of working on it
for years, and never got to it. I I
think that it's the best time in the
world to build right now, um especially
when the barriers to entry in in terms
of building the software is lower than
ever. I I think time is of the essence,
so I just recommend everybody to get
going as soon as possible.
And the last question is, what is what
is one of the most painful lessons that
you'd like to share with with the
audience that you highly recommend not
to Feels like you shared a couple, but
I'm I'm curious if there's one top mind
that you're like absolutely Oh uh
from from 12 years of building the
company there's there's dozens of of
mistakes I made
but probably the root cause of most of
them is is hiring the wrong people. So
so if anything got put even more
attention the next time around on making
sure that the talent you get on board is
the right fit.
And not just in terms of intellectual
capabilities or their problem solving or
work ethic but just in terms of culture
fit. So it's somebody you can trust
who's accountable you get along with
them they're ideally they're fun to work
with as well because like that's not to
be underestimated over a long period of
time having somebody that gives you
energy is very important. So if I was a
second time founder right I'd put even
more effort in that.
Marcus thank you so much for coming.
Yeah this was a pleasure thank you.
Appreciate it.
