原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EYDsVSKfKm4

It's 2026 and you can vibe code anything
now. But just because you can vibe code
it doesn't mean you can vibe fix it or
at least vibe fix it quickly. I know
this because I just tried it. I'm the
co-founder and CEO of Every. We're a
25-person company and in my spare time
over the last couple weeks I made this
app called Proof. I did it entirely in
Codex. I never looked at a single line
of code and I went from basic idea to
finished app in about 10 days. It's an
agent-native document editor. So you can
just think about it as Google Docs if
Google Docs was made for agents to use.
I made it for myself to solve my own
problem collaborating on markdown docs
with my agent. Got a really basic MVP
going and then we launched it. And
launch day was wild. The tweet alone has
about 1.5 thousand likes and 500,000
views and about 4,000 new Proof
documents were created in the first 24
to 48 hours. When I looked at it in the
morning the day after launch and saw the
stats I was like We're going to the
moon!
Of course I'm doing this video so we did
not go to the moon. But I did learn a
lot about the future of coding with
agents.
You know it's a couple weeks later and
the app is up. It's being used by a lot
of people. It seems to be growing really
well
and we've gone from this place where
everything is melting down and I was
like staying up till 4:00 a.m. every
night like trying to trying to get this
hot piece of flaming garbage to work. I
was literally sleeping with my laptop
open next to me so that my agents could
run and then checking it every three or
four hours like I was like some
like settler on the prairie like tending
my fire overnight so it wouldn't go out.
And now it just works. It's pretty
great. I don't really have to spend that
much time making sure it's up. I can
just build new features. And so in
taking it from a vibe coded
sloppy mess to it still has some messy
things but it just actually works and I
use it every day and it and everyone on
the team uses it and it's starting to
grow as a real production app. I've
learned a lot about how to do that. I
think those lessons apply to you if
you're someone who's vibe coding an app
and you're wondering what's going to
happen when it goes into production. If
you're a CEO of a startup and you're
trying to figure out okay how do how
does engineering work in this new world
or you're a software engineer and you're
wondering are my skills even valuable
anymore? I think there's I think there's
lessons in here for everyone. Okay so
here's my learning from it.
The big thing is that there's a new
structure for software engineering in
2026. Engineering teams should be
structured with two people a pirate and
an architect. The pirate's job is to
figure out the product. It's to move as
fast as possible to explore the
territory and make something that people
really need. The pirate is vibe coding.
They're not thinking about architecture.
They're not thinking about making a
well-oiled machine because what they
want to do is find something valuable as
quickly as they can. They own the vision
for the product. And the the architect's
job is is to keep that process on rails.
Is to help the pirate as as they get
closer to something valuable turn that
into a machine that is understandable
extensible maintainable that won't just
go down randomly for no reason that no
one can figure out. Pirates need
architects to keep from to keep them
from making something that just like
falls apart. And architects need pirates
to give them the raw material to work
with to to make a system that's actually
worth making. So let's say you're a
pirate and you want to know how to get
better at that. A couple things I've
learned cuz I definitely think of myself
as a pirate. The first thing is because
you can vibe code anything best thing
you can make is a simple thing that
works really well. The temptation with
vibe coding is to keep adding one
feature after another after another
after another and never actually making
anything of value. You're going to be
way better at building things that
people want if you zero in on what's
actually important about your product.
The second thing is once you hit on
something that works you should just
throw out what you already have. One of
my favorite writers Annie Dillard calls
this covering your tracks. You never in
in writing you never want people to see
how you got to the idea that you have.
You just want to give them the idea. And
the same thing is true in building
products. If you're vibe coding a
product and and iterating it all the
time your code base is going to be this
mess of tracks of different places that
you tried to go and different features
that you tried to build and different
conceptualizations of the product. And
that's all fine. But once you hit the
thing that you actually want to do start
it over. Code is cheap to write so it's
actually very cheap to throw it out. And
the temptation is going to be well I
don't have to start over. I'll just get
like I'll just get my agent to refactor
the code base. And that's definitely not
going to work. One of the interesting
things about coding agents is they get
really distracted by what's already
there. So if you give them a vibe coded
mess it's actually going to be really
hard to get them to rewrite that from
scratch while they're looking at the
vibe coded mess. What you really should
do is just start a new code base. A good
sign for when to do this is
you have something that's clearly
valuable and you have lots of bugs that
are piling up that you can't figure out
how to fix no matter what you do. I
really felt like as I was doing this
Codex was this like slot machine where
each prompt I was like this is going to
be the one that works and my team was
looking at me being like dude you've
been saying this for like four days.
What are you doing? And I just kept
doing it. It's like it's really
addicting to just watch these agents
work.
And it's always easier to believe this
one's going to be the next one that
solves all my problems when it would be
pretty hard to actually go in and
understand what's going on. I think it's
really important to
think of your relationship to a coding
agent and get a get the right
relationship to it so that so that
you're actually using it to build
interesting things and not just wasting
your time building garbage. One of the
last convictions I have from from this
for pirates is just there's such a big
opportunity to remake every productivity
app for agents. Proof is sort of like
you know Google Docs or Microsoft Word
if if it was primarily supposed to be
used by an agent rather than a human.
But I think like every
every app for work whether it's Google
Sheets or PowerPoint or anything like
that the primary users of the next
generation of that type of software is
going to be agents and if you start with
an agent as your user
the kind of software you build is going
to be totally different and really
valuable. So let's say that you are a
much better version of me and you're
smarter and more careful and probably
better looking and you're an architect.
You're not a pirate. What can you take
away from this? Well I I think if you're
an architect you've probably been
thinking to yourself you know is
software engineering going away as a
profession? Do I have any value anymore?
And my experience with this is actually
fixed a lot of these issues with Proof
by pulling in an architect to help me
rewrite a few sections of the app from
the ground up over the course of a week
or so. And that's what really that's
what really fixed the problems. And it's
very clear to me after that experience
that an architect using an AI is
incredibly powerful and incredibly
important and isn't just going to be
replaced by a model in the near future.
That's not to say that coding models are
not powerful and are not totally
changing everything. They absolutely
are. But coding models still lack some
of the conceptual clarity that a really
senior engineer can can bring to a
project. What you find with a coding
model is they make lots of local changes
that all make sense in isolation but if
you zoom out and look at the the deep
picture
it feels like the whole thing doesn't
hang together and real engineers are
very good at doing that. That's not to
say that that will never happen with
coding models but for now especially if
you're a senior engineer who's using
these to ex- to to extend your powers I
think you're just making new expertise
that the models don't have. So to
summarize software engineering is
changing. The the way teams are
structured what you can build and how
you can build it is changing
dramatically. And all you really need
are two roles. A pirate someone who's
moving as fast as possible to figure out
what's valuable and an architect someone
who's helping to turn the valuable yet
disorganized things that the pirate has
discovered into a well-structured
well-organized machine. And as for me
I'm definitely going to be using an
architect next time I launch my vibe
coded side project because my entire
team will mutiny if I don't. And
honestly it's better to do things
together. You don't have to do
everything yourself. If you like this
video you should check out Proof
proofeditor.ai
and use it with your agent. And you
should also subscribe to Every. Every is
the only subscription you need to stay
at the edge of AI. You can find both at
every.to. And and if you watch this and
get inspired you should fire up Codex or
Claude Code or your favorite coding
model and join me on the moon!
