原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Doo2X9LPeY

From the moment I was a teenager, I was
making money just because I was good at
coding. I'm like, "Wow, this should be
available to more people." Right now,
every day I hear of a user that's making
a million dollars on Replet, right?
Yesterday, there was someone tweeted out
that they were making $8 million.
&gt;&gt; And every time someone is shipping
something and they're saying, "Oh, this
is working. Yay." And I'm like, "Can you
tell me what's not working?"
&gt;&gt; I think we're headed into a
postprompting world. And the next phase
is about
&gt;&gt; let's dive right into it. Okay. Amjud,
you know, you you came to the United
States when you were 23 with a bunch of
credit card debt and no job, I think,
right?
&gt;&gt; Um, no, I uh I I had an offer from Code
Academy at the time. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Oh, you did have an offer? Yes.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. Well, but no job. So, you
know, it was technically accurate. One
of the things that you know I think is
super hard at the minus one stage and
frankly even at the early stages is
everyone talks in Silicon Valley about
how persistence, resilience, grit is a
feature, right? But there's a fine line
between being incredibly kind of like
stubborn and also kind of like sometimes
being like this idea is just not that
good. So how have you thought about
that? It's kind of taken you 9 years. I
mean everybody thinks about replica is
an incredibly successful company but
it's taken you 9 years to get there.
Well, more than that, right? Like when I
came to to the to the United States,
Repl was already kind of a side project.
It was an open source side project. So
So you know, 20 years,
&gt;&gt; but the you know the the story on the
credit card debt is interesting. So I
had this job offer from Code Academy,
but I didn't have any money to get to
the United States. On my way out of
Jordan, I had an 01 visa. No one had
heard of 01 visas at the time. Right now
they're so easy, but at the time it was
hard. The airport, they stopped me.
They're like, "This is this visa is like
what is this visa? Is some kind of
scam?" was like, "No, it's like a work
visa." They're like, "No, you have to
buy a uh a return ticket because it's
not an immigrant visa." And they made me
buy that. So, that was all my money. And
I got there and the founders of Code
Academy were like 20 years old and like
I was the f their first employee. Um,
and so I got there, I didn't have any
money and they were like out in Silicon
Valley fundraising. So, I'm here in New
York literally on my own, don't have any
money. I had this credit card that I
started back in Jordan and I understood
how credit card works. I had I thought I
had some money in it. I thought it would
work like a debit card. And so the more
I swiped it, I I I saw that I I was
looking at the balance. I said that the
negative is giving money to me.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It's like and um and so it got so
bad I think I racked up like you know 15
$20,000 and my father calls me one day
and he's like the police is looking for
you uh back in Jordan.
It's like why? It's like you're you know
you defaulted on your on your debt. And
then eventually I I paid it off. But um
in terms of like just the the idea, I
mean part of it is could be insane. Like
you could definitely be insane and like
be going after an idea for 15 years and
like not succeed. I mean there's so many
stories of of entrepreneurs. Maybe some
of them eventually succeed. Maybe some
of them just never succeed. But like I
think the thing that really drove me is
I felt like I I saw some something about
the future. And that is I saw what
programming and being good at coding did
to my life to our life changed how uh
how like grew up from you came from very
humble background and from from the
moment I was a teenager I was making
money on my own just because I was good
at coding. I'm like wow this opportunity
should be available to more people. So
the the thing that always motivated
replet is how do you make programming
more accessible and if you make
programming more accessible that
incredibly valuable thing because people
can make money can get jobs can and so
surely you can find a way to like
monetize it get value out of it I just
didn't know how and they and that took a
lot of different paths and the thing
about replet even 10 years ago we've
always had success stories they were
like they were minor but over time and
right now every day I hear of a user
that's making a million dollars on
Replet, right? Yesterday there was
someone uh that tweeted out that they
were making $8 million uh solo
entrepreneur, which is amazing. But even
back then, it's like someone was like,
"Oh, I learned to code a little bit on
Replet. I'm like a fitness instructor
and like then like I figured out how to
do an iOS app and now I'm making like
$1,000 in the app store." Like, whoa,
that's amazing. So, how can we create a
million people like that? And so there
was always something that was that like
showed us that this could be a big idea
and that that kept us moving. The thing
that really excites us, you know, the
charts up into the right, they're
amazing when we talk to users and when
you're building something that enables
people, that's the best feeling. I mean,
you two know it, right? Like you know
the the returns I'm sure are amazing,
but when you see a founder that came out
of here that is crushing it, that's the
thing that makes it all worth it. So I
actually want to um check in with hya.
Um so you know you were a designer. I
think he asked you to design the logo
for replet. Um and then you decided to
like you know join him full-time on this
journey. I I guess like way back then
I'm guessing he didn't have the messiah
complex then but like you know way back
then what what did you see in replet?
Like why why did you decide to do that?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So I had a job and Amjad came to
me. He didn't have a job. So he was
working on rolet he was a student and he
was like I need a logo and I need a UI
and I was like for what and he says I
have this side project going on it's
called replet no idea what is read eval
print loop even means I was like okay
what is replet even means
so we have to ask many questions as
designer we can be a little bit you know
too much but it's part of the job so he
says well it's a ripple you know I was
like I don't know but I I can imagine
stuff I can make up stuff. So I imagined
like a like a water ripple and I created
a logo for that but I didn't know what I
was doing. Um so I created the UI and I
pushed he pushed the UI of course he
changed the UI and then he came back to
the same UI that I developed for him.
It's the designer engineer relationship.
You know, they think they know better,
but they were like, "Oh, this actually
looks good." Like, "Oh, you mean exactly
like this how it looked like before."
Um, so fast forward my story with
Replet. The reason why I started Replet
with Amra because um I wanted to find a
job. So,
&gt;&gt; okay. Should we move on to AI? I mean
this is a weird question to ask you guys
but you know it feels like a lot of the
momentum is swinging back to local
development and as someone building like
cloud native prompt to deploy sandboxes
like how do you think about the
resurgence of local AI tools?
&gt;&gt; Well I I think there is uh the question
of like the absolute numbers versus like
the the share. I think in absolute
numbers all of coding is growing whether
it's cloud whether it's local uh you
know I do think that there's there's
some fundamental limitations to local so
for example there was a supply chain
attack uh in the JavaScript ecosystem
just yesterday and it's pretty bad like
if you installed uh very massive one of
the most popular libraries that that
does requests in JavaScript it would
take over your computer. Like literally
remote uh takeover of computer.
&gt;&gt; It was insane.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So if uh if you're in replet,
you're not exposed at all because not
only is it a cloud environment that is
not connected to your local computer. We
also block post install scripts. We also
have a minimum age limit for a package.
So we don't allow like packages that
were just published. And it was caught
in a few hours, but even a few hours
many millions of people installed it.
And so I think you know things shift
hype comes and goes. Um and you know at
some point replet agent was like the fir
the only agent on the market September
2024 and now like we started an entire
revolution. We're proud of that. At some
point we're going to do something
fundamentally new no one no one else did
that will start again. We feel very
proud that we've always been on the
cutting edge of of what's possible. At
the same time you if you believe in
something you just you just do what you
think is right. And for example, the
enterprise side of uh the business right
now is taking off primarily because of
the security and um reliability features
because enterprises is like ah I don't
want people installing open claw and all
this stuff on their computers. I want
these cloud environments that are safe
and secure and been battle tested for
for many years. I was going to say, I
mean, I
I love our clawed overlords, but this
local development makes zeroing sense.
Like, it actually is so much easier to
do everything in the cloud remotely
managed in a way that's secure, but also
autoscales. Like, I literally walk
around San Francisco and, you know,
whatever Uber I'm in with my laptop
open, so the thing keeps on running. It
makes zero sense, right? Um, so I'm
hoping that you know we come to our
senses about that. Here's the question.
So one thing that as a founder today is
super disorienting is the pace of
change.
&gt;&gt; Like you are both trying to build
something on top of foundations and
abstractions that are incredibly
powerful but constantly shifting in a
way that they're both enabling more
things but then also like kind of taking
away what you are building and kind of
like swallowing them into themselves. So
how do you deal with that at Replet?
because obviously you're you're kind of
trying to be at the forefront and you
know the agent stuff is a good example
but at the same time some of what you're
building is getting integrated into the
platforms themselves. So how do you
almost visualize that race in your own
head in a way that makes you confident
about kind of where you want to go?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, we were talking about this
actually earlier but um uh I'm going to
say two things that are contradictory
and you guys figure out how to cohhere
them.
&gt;&gt; Two truths, one lie. Okay.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh, do you remember when Mark
Andre went viral for quote unquote
maxing and saying that he's not
he doesn't uh introspect on Twitter the
other day and that was like super
controversial and I think there's like
deep wisdom in that and that as a
founder you have to kind of be um
stupidly executing on a day-to-day basis
and is the the question is is the
company growing
Are you adding customers? Are you
selling your product? Uh, and that is
true for us every single day. And if
not, if there's something wrong, just
talk to customers. They're going to tell
you it is competition. They're going to
tell you it is something else. And
handle these problems locally. And then
if you do that enough days in a row,
you're going to end up in a much better
place, right? So, in some sense, you
want to shut off the entire world and
you want to focus on your customers and
people using your product, right? That's
that's number one. Number two, that is
totally opposite
is every now and then try to predict
where the future's headed and try to
predict their place in it. Right? Like
uh I I think actually predicting the
futures is much easier than most people
think. Like you know uh my TED AI talk
2023 I came up and said software is
going to be solved in the next couple of
years. Here's what software development
looks like. And I sketched out like vibe
coding for the next two years. We
actually just completed the road map
that I sketched out like one of the last
elements with was parallel agents how
you can like put in a prompt and it
becomes four different tasks. For
example, replet now I think it's the
best parallel agent on the market. you
know that was like a looking forward
like three years and so we have some
deep beliefs about where the future is
headed and so we're trying to position
Rufflet in a way strategically making
few key bets that will pay off in the
next 6 to 12 months based on where we
think the world is headed but on a
day-to-day basis I think if you're
consumed by these questions you're not
going to be able to execute
&gt;&gt; to kind of perhaps echo this point back
to everyone here who's an early stage
founder. I actually think that this is
one of the key contradictory things you
have to become good at in today's day
and age which is that how do you find
kind of like north stars and kind of
like essential like you know
philosophical groundings that you feel
confident about
and also you know kind of ignore the
day-to-day that you will hear
around you but also not ignore it to the
point that you are actually ignoring the
good information. So it's actually just
but I don't think anybody's figured this
out. So I think if it makes you feel
better, I think that this is a problem
in today's day and age that all of us
have to figure out as founders. And I
think it's a it's it's a really hard
problem to figure out.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So if you're holding both states in your
head and you've just accomplished what
you, you know, laid out in 2023, what
have you laid out for the next three
years?
&gt;&gt; I don't know if I want to say it here.
These guys are going to compete with us.
&gt;&gt; You just tell us one thing.
Um I think we're headed into a postp
prompting world. Uh I think prompting
you know the way technology move is like
things get layered right but I think
we've reached the apex of like sort of
what prompting is and what it could do
and the next phase is about I think two
two different things. One is new
interfaces for interacting with AI. And
the second is fully autonomous agents
that can push and set a pull that can
actually operate in the background,
understand you or your organization
about how they work and do proactive
work that is useful. And we're building
in both these these directions.
&gt;&gt; I'm a little confused about the
interface because it will still be web-
based.
Um I I I think that uh there's like the
multimodal capabilities of of models are
are very compelling. Like you know in
the movie Her like how when he's
installing the operating system, he's
sitting in front of his computer, he's
talking to his computer. I think like
we're almost there in a moment where you
can sit in front of the screen and maybe
even turn on your webcam and um maybe
there's touch component there and you
know it's very natural sort of like
you're dueling you know that we just
launched our canvas interface you are
like moving your hands you're talking it
was like do this here do that here you
know it kind of sort of looks like you
know Iron Man did you see that meme Iron
Man vibe coding
&gt;&gt; uh and so I I think we're we're headed
to that world and maybe maybe part of it
is going to be VR or AR but we're headed
to that world where communicating with
machines is just kind of feels more
natural like more like how I talk to you
&gt;&gt; or minority report but I don't like to
give that example because it's like so
dystopian but yes but that interface is
really cool
&gt;&gt; yeah it's interesting both of the kind
of use cases that you laid out you know
I was just actually literally wipe
coding well I was building SPC's app
kind of upstairs right before this and I
was just trying to be like move this
thing over here, shorten this, kind of
like rearrange the layout, make it more
compact. And then the other thing I was
running was trying to just again
automate the set of things that it's
supposed to do every morning for me. But
I was thinking in my head, I have done
the same thing the last two weeks, like
why is it not predicting what it's
supposed to do? Um, so I think both of
those, which is inferred use based on
kind of my my usage patterns, and then
also the UI stuff can be so much quicker
than what it is right now. The prompting
back and forth is so slow. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Well, you should you should check out
agent 4 the the canvas. There's some
fundamental way in which the big labs
are uh operating that is limited. I
think in in in trying to build that AGI,
they're not really building systems that
are super user friendly like you know
quad core work is amazing and code is
amazing but everything is is based on
this like prompt something happens and
maybe you can like schedule it so that
it happens every day but but it is not a
fully integrated system that understands
and this is the opportunity for everyone
here is like building amazing user
experiences cuz I don't think
&gt;&gt; I agree I think the hardest thing um or
my like hardest my biggest user issue
and my biggest user complaint is how do
I load all the context that you know I
want to share to be able to build
something as powerful as I want it to be
which is like going back to what you
were saying like why hasn't it learned
for my usage patterns why isn't it
retaining context
&gt;&gt; yeah so that's where we're thinking
about like uh the pull and push
information and what would that look
like so right now it's a lot of the user
is telling the agents like do this do
that you don't understand me like no no
no like I meant that did you forget
about XYZ we spoke about it multiple
times I mean and at this point maybe you
need to understand my taste and I build
multiple projects and I need it the same
way so like if it's if you're working
with a real engineer or real designer at
this point they need like should
understand each other at some point at
some level this is what we're trying to
One of the coolest things in agent 4 is
that uh the entire project context is in
one place and instead of usually
previously you would build a website one
place a web app uh mobile app in another
place Xcode whatever. So literally on
the canvas you see your mobile app, you
see your web app, you see your back end,
you see everything and now you want to
generate a slide deck to pitch an
investors. It's like generate a slide
deck you know because it has entire
project context in one place. You can
you can you can do that and again those
kind of interfaces like not they're not
prominent because these big companies
are just focused on the model being like
as as powerful as possible. And so that
leaves a lot of white space for
entrepreneurs to invest.
&gt;&gt; So what is the most powerful thing you
have built using agent 4?
&gt;&gt; You know, our our users at this point
are just like way better than me at
building things. I I'll tell you one
thing that really uh blown my mind
recently. I did a soldier should
shoulder surgery and had a physical
therapist and um she always had the she
um she kind of specializes in fascia
therapy. Not many people know how to do
it has this this trigger point
component. Uh and she tracks your
progress every time you see her like
lift up your hand what is your range of
motion things like that. She always
talked about this idea of like I want to
be able to track that. I want to be able
to, you know, take a a 3D scan of your
body and allow you at home to kind of do
these exercises, give you feedback on
them, track your movement, all of that.
You know, I would tell her to check out
Raplet every now and then. And then I
was like, most of the time it didn't
work out. But like in the past few
months, they actually built an amazing
app where as part of the onboarding, you
take a few pictures of yourself, it
creates a 3D sheers. Wow, that's
amazing.
&gt;&gt; Uh 3D scan of your body. And they were
they were working with offshore
developers and they created like a mess
for them. And now they restarted
everything on replet and it's just
working. Uh and it's it's like a
healthcare app but it's like a
delightful user experience. And I I
didn't know that you know rapid is like
good at like doing 3D models and 3D
experiences. And these are the kind of
things that weren't uh built previbe
coding because
the market cap for something like that I
don't think it's is going to be you know
&gt;&gt; that's the question I have for you like
who is Replet's user is it like the
creator the individual user is it the
enterprise I understand it's both but
I'm kind of curious about can you build
a business model without enterprise
because every other like competitor or
like so-called competitor you might have
there whether it's like claude
um or cursor or like you know all of
these other people like the main revenue
even cognition the main revenue source
is enterprise so can you build a revenue
model from this creative everyday user
&gt;&gt; yeah um I I think so I I mean our
revenue is now still dominated by uh
individual entrepreneurs and small
businesses our enterprise revenue is
growing fast uh I'll tell you some of
the enterprise use cases but but by the
way I don't I think these personas are
that different in that um I think what
replet unlocks today is I am a domain
expert. I'm not a programmer. I know how
to create value in the world. But
previously I didn't have the tools to do
that. So outside the enterprise, it is
this doctor that has deep domain
knowledge in a very niche subject where
some sub population of the world are
interested in an app for that. She can
create that that previously wasn't
created because if you're tech row in
Silicon Valley, you're not interested in
that, right? So now that gets created in
the enterprise. For example, one of our
customers, Zillow, uh there's like a
product manager that was managing the
real estate agent uh team that
responsible for lead routing and and and
managing the real estate agents to kind
of be able to close deals. And he always
had ideas on how to increase
conversions, but didn't have the
engineering resources to do it. He was
able to do it and he created millions of
dollars of value of the company and
became super popular at the company was
sitting on board meetings and hanging
out with the with the founders. That's
entrepreneurship too except it's inside
the enterprise. So I think it's it's
really the same type of user. The
challenge for AI in general broadly
today is that the concept of ICP is
actually not very useful.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Because it's like oh I'm going after the
product manager you know that went to
school to do X Y and Z. Instead we're
starting to think about traits like what
are the traits of the of the rapid user
and like resourcefulness. So things PG
used to write about you know that the
hacker mentality all of that is is the
kind of user that we're going after. So
um for most part people like to think
about persona and not to think about
persona is very difficult because you
need to deattach yourself from these
personalities and start to see common
traits between all of them and see and
notice behaviors and what makes all of
these people across you know all of
their domain and expertise the behaviors
are all the same which is I want to be
heard. I want to do something. I notice
a problem and I do and I want to do
something about this problem now. And
and these people are very stubborn and
because of all of that too, they want to
win and they want then they don't they
want to prove that they're right,
they're not wrong. So whether they're
designers, they're PMs, they are small
medium business owners, they are an
enterprise, they're they all have these
traits and qualities and it's very
similar from the um consumer to
enterprise.
I'm curious I mean
you more than you and hire have more
than almost anyone kind of a front row
window into the evolution of the models
and especially kind of the accelerating
progress and capability of these models
over the last three or four months right
and I think that you're laying out a
version of the world which I subscribe
to as well which is that these models
have seen particularly kind of cloud you
know claude has seen a tremendous kind
of rate of increase in terms of
capabilities starting whatever December,
January and right now in some ways we
are in peak love with cloud code because
these models they feel like you want to
be raw you want to be close to them and
it gives you a sense of like wow between
cloud core cloud co-work and so on
there's a tremendous amount of
capability but pretty soon you're like
well I kind of don't want five terminal
windows running I want something that's
bunch more manage I want different UI
more capabilities right I guess the
first question is what do you think
changed in December I'm curious like to
get your analysis of like what change in
the model capability and number two how
quickly are you seeing users get in some
ways frustrated with the minimal UI of
these raw models and wanting more
&gt;&gt; I think the uh there are different
phases of um model improvements
um you know say uh 2021
or like 2020 to 2023. It was a
pre-training era where you just put in
bunch of crap really any kind of data
didn't matter and you just have as much
parameters as possible and you grow this
model and it just keeps getting better.
We have the scaling loss and we thought
we could
&gt;&gt; the simple word more data more
parameters everything was better. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. But then we hit a we hit a plateau
and the plateau for a bunch of reason.
One is like you know there wasn't a lot
of data left in the world. Another is
like the training infrastructure got
like a little too complicated for
growing these models a lot more.
&gt;&gt; And so we entered the sort of RL and
thinking era. So like say 20 like 2024
uh with you know starting with 01 and
deepseeek and and all that you had this
uh moment of time where the training
regime changed and we entered this
moment of you're you're getting you're
doing reinforcement learning and these
models are getting more autonomous
because not only the raw intelligence is
improving but they're staying coherent
longer over time. I think the big unlock
that happened uh just in uh uh like
December um uh November December I think
the uh coherence
&gt;&gt; it just became almost indefinite.
&gt;&gt; Interesting.
&gt;&gt; Like uh agent 3 was kind of the most
autonomous agent in September uh 2025
and we struggle to make it run for an
hour. But right now if you have enough
evaluation in the middle if you have
computer use or unit test or whatever
really the models kind of run
indefinitely. The other thing is like
models also gained some
self consciousness almost. I think
that's too much of a loaded word but
they started training on their own
context window. So they actually also
got really good at compression and
really good at taking contacts and
storing it into into files and being
able to search across these files and
recollect the contacts based on the next
stacks that you're you're going to do
and all these things culminating
together uh created these different
models. The other big thing at least
this is the rumor is that it looks like
the the big labs have figured out how to
scale pre-chaining again.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think we're going to enter
another phase of scaling where we're
going to see bigger and bigger models.
So Opus is like a really big model. Uh
and I think they're going to get even
bigger. And I think the reason token
prices are not going down is because the
the the the models are getting bigger.
&gt;&gt; But it's it's sort of abs and flows and
you need to understand what what stage
we're sort of in. So I expect the real
capabilities to continue uh improving in
the near future. That being said, I
still feel that uh there's a lot of
white space between the AGI providers
and what the users want and the kind of
thing that is actually fun and exciting
to use. That doesn't change
&gt;&gt; 100%.
&gt;&gt; Like that's human and humans don't
change all that much. We're visual
creatures. We always want to be want to
have visual feedback as opposed to like
just pure terminal.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And I strongly agree and I think
that you know if if you take the other
side of that if you're the kind of
founder who believes that in an AGI
world there will not be that much for
humans to do well then then my real
question is why are you starting a
company right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Go shopping.
&gt;&gt; Go shop.
Um
or go learn how to surf I guess. Yeah.
Um
&gt;&gt; that's what I'm doing. So you could
believe that.
&gt;&gt; Um okay perhaps uh Richie should move on
to company building beliefs.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, Replet has a pretty
fascinating um internal company culture.
Like, how many of you have heard about
it?
&gt;&gt; Come on, guys. Well, this is your
opportunity to learn. So, one of
Replet's core values is seek pain.
I cannot imagine putting up on my walls,
seek pain. Um but like where does that
come from? And like do you scare people
away?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So um I'm going to answer because
this is mine actually.
&gt;&gt; I created it. Seek pain comes from
curiosity when something is working or
not working and going deep deep and
trying to understand what the hell is
going on. It's really difficult to
deattach yourself from the work and not
feel that it's personal. It's not
personal. It's not about you. It's just
work. And this is very difficult for
people to go to users or go to actually
people and ask them hey can you use this
thing and or like can you let me know
what like can you tell me how does this
feel to you and they tell you it suck
and like you don't feel you know like
you're you're now demotivated.
So um it's such a skill to master that
skill. So it's just like learning that
right. So, and then like that's there's
the growth into it and there's like a
lot in seek pain. Seek pain in hard
conversation. Seek pain in understanding
like what's going on in the product.
Seek pain is how can I get better in
XYZ. So all of that is a principle that
I take to heart and I wanted to bring it
to Replet and every time someone is
shipping something and they're
celebrating and it feels like a bubble
that they're celebrating something and
they're saying, "Oh, this is working.
Yay." And I'm like, "Can you tell me
what's not working?" So
&gt;&gt; So anytime anyone's celebrating in the
company, I will be like, "Why are you
happy?"
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; What sucks about this?
&gt;&gt; What suck? Can someone tell me what suck
about it? cuz if I know I would be like
more fulfilled to be honest.
&gt;&gt; I mean Richie you say you don't want to
put this on the wall but that describes
you completely. It does like every time
we have a victory lap about SPC you kind
of smack me down with like the 10 things
that are not yet great about it
&gt;&gt; or I mean you could be better.
&gt;&gt; Could be better. Exactly.
&gt;&gt; Can I add another layer into it? It
comes also from like discipline in the
army. It's like when you are operating
as a soldier, it's very important to
just like keep going and showing up
every single day and like
like sometimes you know feelings has its
own time but sometimes you just need to
do what it needs to be done.
&gt;&gt; Yep. Um counterintuitively
uh seeking pain reduces pain because I
think most companies delay pain and that
accumulates over time like a pivot that
is really hard or conversation or firing
someone that you know firing someone is
always painful and most people delay it
and becomes more painful over time and
so I I think it actually over the long
term just reduces pain. Um so one other
thing and this is this is especially
relevant for our founders here is that
in the early days replet hired from like
hackathons very niche communities indie
game worlds where do you think elite
talent still hides? That's I mean Haya
mentioned the the army actually a lot of
our sales people are like
marines and and all sorts of
&gt;&gt; I'm mostly asking this because it's
really difficult to hire people um and
usually people tend to ignore these
areas for recruiting. So, army is one,
&gt;&gt; if I'm being honest, the like awkward
young uh sort of engineer uh like a lot
of companies still overlook them. And
now there's this there's this mindset
around,
you know, uh new grads that you don't
need them or you don't want them. And I
think there's there's a lot of amazing
new grads that are coming up right now
that there isn't a lot of demand on
them. So, I think you can find a lot of
young people. I think it keep changes,
right? It's sort of like Moneyball. Uh
if you haven't watched this movie, it's
about a, you know, baseball team that
assembles like the weirdest people that
um have, you know, have some kind of
value, but there's but they're not in
demand in the market. So, every moment
of time sort of changes. I do think that
it's shifting to to there's there's so
much doom and gloom about younger new
grads, new talent that I think it's
probably a good place to go look. So uh
when Editier came to replet to speak I
wish you were there he spoke about
hunger like people needs to be really
hungry all the time to fit in the
culture that stuck with me so much. So I
was like, how can we how can we like
create principles when we are
interviewing people because I'm still in
the top of the funnel when when when a
designer, you know, we're interviewing
them, they meet me first, right? Because
I'm the most opinionated person. So um
where do we find them? They must use
replet. They are from the replet
community and they need to be hungry.
And when I like okay how do you measure
hunger and I'm like okay I I kept
thinking about that it's like do they
have site projects did are they actually
opinated about this AI world do they
want to add impact in replet so that's
that's a venue that we uh and hackathons
that we are partnered with with
hackathons so we it's like oh like this
is a really cool project you should come
join roughlet
&gt;&gt; yeah I mean for what it's worth like my
take is if you're trying to hire an
engineer today for your startup and that
person cannot immediately pull up like
10 things that they have built over the
last like just two weeks for their
personal kind of like life to optimize
stuff to look up like it would be insane
if you haven't done that right that
demonstrates a fundamental lack of
either hunger or curiosity both of which
are just like critical to kind of I
think early stage kind of like you know
uh engineers here's a sort of a
mispriced asset right now uh Silicon
Valley always sort of looked down on
consult consultants. I actually think
consultants are are probably are very
well set up for the AI age because I
think AI benefits the generalists and
who's the ultimate journalist is sort of
like the consultant types.
&gt;&gt; H
&gt;&gt; I'm skeptical but but
&gt;&gt; I think next you're going to say MBAs.
Okay.
&gt;&gt; Well, that I mean maybe MBAs too. I
think
&gt;&gt; actually it's not crazy.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. like like um you know we started a
team of vibe quitters uh and they're
they're doing fantastic and they're
really we give them this mission of like
just go around the company find
inefficiencies and solve them and
they're doing amazing work they went to
our support team our seesat score went
up our recruiting team they're helping
them and so you can just hire
generalists and give them old AI tools
and just say you know help me make more
revenue or make the company run better
&gt;&gt; it's interesting like I can hire like
your replet as a company, the hiring
strategy, the people that you have
reminds me a lot of Facebook early on,
which is there's a bunch of folks like
Facebook did a fantastic job like early
on Facebook was just given so much grief
like oh you guys are a simple PHP kind
of like you know CRUD website that
allows kids to essentially go and upload
things and nobody took us seriously and
our take was that we will hire a bunch
of folks who are well credentialed who
have gone to the schools but we'll also
anybody who hacks into the website
fantastic you income work at Facebook.
This is how we got kids from high school
dropouts from from Beton Rouge like
Louisiana who basically were going to
kind of a community college in Louisiana
or like somebody from Atlanta, Georgia
and like all these people who we
otherwise wouldn't have hired. Facebook
also did one of the first kind of
essentially coding puzzles on the
internet. And the thing I remember about
all these people were that they were so
hungry. Like they would come in with a
chip on their shoulder with something to
prove and they just worked like you know
10x harder than anyone else. It was
incredible. And coming to replet I got
that same energy and I think that's
amazing. It's so hard to capture
&gt;&gt; the the champions in replet they are the
people who couldn't find a job.
&gt;&gt; Like when they are looking they need to
put them in a bucket. It's like you are
a designer you only design. You don't
vibe code. You don't code. don't do PM
or like all of the other things. You're
a PM, you just do XYZ. And when they
come to me, I was just like, I actually
don't know what I want to do, but I can
do it. I was like, welcome to Roughlet.
This is the perfect place for you to be.
&gt;&gt; It's a metapoint here. So, I I think
we're sort of rolling back the hypers
specialization that happened during the
industrial era. You create the like the
eraser on the pencil and the factory
line, right? Like that's that that was
like a very specific thing for a very
specific time. And I think we're headed
to a place of more generalists. Like the
titles will just get shorter where your
title could be just product.
&gt;&gt; You're doing product management, design,
engineering, doesn't really matter. Your
title is just product. I always get
asked this question uh which is what is
it like to work with your significant
other? How do you weather the ups and
downs? How does that kind of like is
that something you would recommend? Um,
so I get the chance to I don't often get
the chance to ask this question, but
what is it like working together? Do you
like that question when you get asked?
You know, I have my stock answer. I can
kind of, you know, I I'll give the
answer after you give your answer. Okay.
Yeah, that's fantastic. What do you
think?
&gt;&gt; And you say anything.
&gt;&gt; Beat that. Okay.
&gt;&gt; I met Amjad at work. At the beginning it
was like a lot of you know conflicts but
at work because you know I'm a designer
he's an engineer but then like um later
on when he asked me for the logo I like
the guy so I did the logo for him like
you know for free but then fast forward
um I mean for a really long time for
free but the the point is I kept
enjoying doing work with Amjad games uh
designing uh with him and like problem
solving And part of my journey of
finding replet because I wanted to find
a job. I couldn't find a job. I mean I
immigrated to the United States without
like having an opportunity that lasted
for so many years. So I I had to find a
side project and that happened to be
Replet and Amjad helped me in building
Replet and that my side project became
the company like I didn't know that I
was creating a product. So we always
worked together and then when it was
time to create the company together we
were ready. It was it was hard decision
but we already been working and
designing and to his experience in code
academy as an entrepreneur I never
understood what they're doing like he he
spends nights weekends like what do you
guys are doing it was
&gt;&gt; drugs
&gt;&gt; it was so
like why are you sleeping at work and I
only understood when we created replet
together I feel that it brought our
relationship closer
And I like to do things with my family.
I like I like to be with them at every
single minute. I feel like life is too
short. So anyway,
&gt;&gt; that's that's getting like
&gt;&gt; I mean I I actually think you have
covered a lot of what I give in my
longer answer. Yeah. Um my son, our sons
recently 6 years old. Uh came up to me.
He's like, "You should hire more
students." Uh I was like, "Who who are
you?"
&gt;&gt; He wants to work at Replet. And so he
wants to work
should hire more students. Uh and he
wears the rapid logo everywhere he goes.
He loves it. And my brother my younger
brother also works at Rapid. He's a
engineer. So but look he how I talked
about all the good things. The the
challenging thing is other people like
other people's experiences of you right
like I think that um like are they going
to be comfortable giving her feedback
about me or giving me feedback about
her? How do you create this this comfort
level? How do you not make it awkward
like in in in meetings and things like
that? And that's the thing to make sure
that um it's uh it's something to work
on. The other thing is you want to make
sure that the uh company is
meritocratic,
so anyone can get fired, right? Um and
at some point I did fire my brother. I
brought him back, but he's working
really hard now, so he's good. Um
but yeah, I mean
&gt;&gt; seek the pain.
&gt;&gt; But but but the the problem with you
know family there's a lot of good things
about family business but but part of
the problem is like you you know a lot
of us come from countries where nepotism
is like a big problem. You need to be
aware of that like you shouldn't
approach this with a nepotistic mindset
like you should it should actually be
meritocratic. Everyone should be putting
their best.
&gt;&gt; It's a great answer. I mean I I I I
don't have much more to add based on
what Hy said, but I often tell people is
that my work is really important to me,
right? And I think that it would be very
hard to explain the insanity of being an
entrepreneur to somebody who wasn't
actually living it. It's actually very
hard to kind of be like, hey, I'm crazy.
I want you to understand me, right? So
the fact that I have a uh a life and
kind of a work partner who deeply
understands that insanity, I think is
actually just a really good thing.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I just want to add something like
from my experience in building replet to
watch out for power hungry people that
can get like in you know make you feel
skeptical of what you're doing or
questioning what you're doing. So it's
uh finding like other people who are
doing similar work like you and seeking
advice like hey I'm noticing this this
that is that am I crazy or am I not
crazy? So like advice there like this is
something that we experienced that we
seek advice and it was uh super
valuable.
&gt;&gt; So one of the things that I'm paranoid
about is that I cannot keep up with the
pace of information. So I'm curious what
is your information regimen? How do you
keep up with the pace of everything
that's changing especially with AI and
also run a company at the same time?
It's hard like um look I I think that
you need to have certain predictions or
a working model about the world such
that things should not be massively
surprising. If they are surprising, you
need to update your prior. So you need
to have a model of a world such that if
you're off of Twitter for for a day or
two or a week or two, it's like it's not
a big deal cuz you sort of understand
where things are headed. And I
constantly am like trying to figure out
where things are headed. Like I'll make
predictions. I'll often make predictions
publicly and uh I think it's just like a
skill to hone. So if you understand and
try to understand the models and how
they work and try to read some research
papers when they come out again it's a
kind of buzz word but if you have more
first principles understanding of things
you don't have to be on top of
&gt;&gt; that's actually the best answer I've
heard about this. Like I've asked a lot
of people on stage that same question
and I think that I wouldn't have been so
articulate about it but a lot of what
I'm trying to do is you are making micro
predictions and then if you see
something that is wildly off either you
need to update the model like your own
model or you or it's a scam or it's a
scam. Exactly. Most like that person's
stupid.
&gt;&gt; Um I go ahead. You have I was going to
open it up maybe after one more
question.
I mean I do have a lot of questions but
we can open it up.
&gt;&gt; Why don't you give one last one?
&gt;&gt; Why don't you ask the kid question?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. This is my um so Shams is
six now right? So our kids are almost
like three, six and nine ourselves. And
it's, you know, you think a lot about
obviously raising your children, giving
them a great environment, trying to
prepare them for the world that they
will grow up in. But it is very hard to
kind of have a high conviction, high
confidence mental model of the world.
You know, what's the world going to look
like in 9 years when Avian has to go to
college, right? Like that's kind of
insane to think about. So, how do you
how do you how are you preparing your
children for for the coming I would say
change in the world?
&gt;&gt; Before we had our kids, I I'm like I've
been always like a uh ad tech nerd. I
always like liked education technology,
worked in education technology, invested
a lot in it, really bad sector to invest
in u and then uh when our our you know
when our we had our kids, I like tried
all these tools on them. especially
Shams is like he learns very differently
and it's sort of like what is Mike
Tyson's kind of um quote where you have
plans and then like
&gt;&gt; you get punched in the face.
&gt;&gt; You get punched in the face.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Everybody's got a strategy until
they get punched in the face.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I I feel like having kids is like
getting punched in the face by reality
uh constantly. And so we're we're just
like learning as as we're going. The one
surprising thing is like actually like
the Bay Area should be one of the places
that's quite innovative on technology on
on education but it's like it's just
like a Monsuri school is like the most
innovative thing you can find here which
is like 70 years old now. It's deeply
frustrating how little change happened
in in education. I think what a lot of
people with with means end up doing is
they end up creating their own schools
like Elon. I think you guys might have
experience in that. And then, you know,
other people do just homeschooling
because it really is not that great.
Like you go look for schools, most of
them are not that good. Um ultimately um
the the main lesson from education
technology is Bloom's two sigma problem.
So this uh researcher found that no
matter what intervention you can make in
school, there's one intervention that
creates two standard deviation
improvement in educational uh attainment
and it is one-on-one tutoring and
there's nothing really better than that.
So finding like one-on-one tutors for
your kids or finding AI apps that are
really good at that, one of my
investments, Synthesis, could actually
be really helpful. But I think it's uh
we're just we're just trying to navigate
&gt;&gt; this can I can like uh talk about my
thinking. I think about basics uh and
basics will remain the same and values
and that means like introducing them to
the basics of gymnastics or swimming or
like seeing through my children and it's
like a trial and error like what are the
areas that they are really good at what
are the areas that I think they should
get better at and it's like you know
when you're building a product it's like
the same uh and you notice and you
observe So it's like similar to that and
to Amjad was saying including going to
school we are dabbling with one-on-one
mentoring and seeing where that take us.
So it's just learning how they learn.
It's very difficult and it keeps
changing and that changes how we
introduce information and stuff to them.
It
&gt;&gt; sounds like our AI models.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's interesting. My big my big
takeaway for my kids is actually just to
just remind them that the reason why we
have all these computers and these AIs
and these models is to actually be able
to build things and these models are
there to serve them, you know, and kind
of like they have ultimately agency. I
had this great experience with Davian
just like last week where he got a TI 84
for the first time.
&gt;&gt; I charge him 4% interest mother
&gt;&gt; because he doesn't have enough money to
buy it yet. Richie was totally lone
sharking him and then he gets this uh
this calculator and he's
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And then he's kind of like making
graphs in it.
&gt;&gt; And then one of the somewhat odd joys in
my life is that Aven and I share a uh
Claude account so I can see all his
chats. And so I see this chat and he's
like talking to the AI about he's like
give me some crazy graphs that I can
make. And then he's like make the graphs
dance and sing. And I'm just like, it's
amazing though because he experiencing
math in a way that is just like
beautiful for him. It's fun. He's like
like that's actually what these
functions should exist. Like you can
make them do funny shapes and he's
learning about it.
&gt;&gt; He's also experiencing it through the
interest rate that I'm charging him.
&gt;&gt; Oh, there you go. Um, so I don't know. I
think that giving kids access to, you
know, technology and not being afraid of
it while also sharing a AI account with
them, I think is the is the right way to
go. All right, folks. This is a wrap.
Um, I mean, what I'll say to kind of
finish up here is that you've often
spoken
very eloquently about seeing a world
where you have a billion developers. And
I think what's amazing is that you are
both you're literally just making that
world happen right now, right? Like I
really think that in the next 5 years
there will be a billion people writing
code on a daily basis and what a time to
be alive. Both of you are inspirational.
Thank you for coming here today. Thank
you for sharing your story.
&gt;&gt; Thank you. Pleasure.
