原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u3GjIXP9N0s

If you aren't doing it hands-on, your
opinion about it is very likely to be
completely wrong.
&gt;&gt; This is Mark Brooker. He's a
distinguished engineer at AWS, and I
interviewed him for technical learnings
from his career. 30,000 cloud system
postmortems. I want to ask you what
makes a good postmortem.
&gt;&gt; I could spend a lot of time talking
about that.
&gt;&gt; You had a tweet that said that there are
cases where caches are bad. I prefer to
see the teams around me avoiding caching
where possible.
&gt;&gt; We also discussed how software
engineering is changing. What is
important given that code is kind of
flowing like water now.
&gt;&gt; The job changes and and and you do
different work.
&gt;&gt; For someone who's structuring their
career, would you say it's better to be
overrated or underrated?
Here's the full episode.
At some point when I was a very junior
engineer, I looked at the more senior
engineers and said, "What what is the
difference between you and I? I'm
working more hours than you. I'm I'm,
you know, landing more code than you.
Why is it that you're so much more
impactful than I am?" And then I
realized that kind of the direction of
your work, like what is the thing that
you're actually shifting matters more
than the volume of your work and your
contributions. What would be your advice
on how do you find problems that matter?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think you have to go super
broad. So I think there's a set of those
things that come in from from customers
from the world, right? Like here is an
unsolved problem. You know, I spend a
lot of time meeting with AWS customers
and listening to them talk about, you
know, what are the things they still
find difficult in in our space? What are
they, you know, what are they investing
in? Where are they spending their time?
Where would they prefer to be not
spending their time? and and focus on
their core business instead. And so
that's one rich seam uh of ideas and and
and focus on what's you know what's
interesting. I think completely at the
other level is sort of on looking at the
technical trends and you can look at
just the the kind of speeds and feeds
like wow networks have gotten faster,
storage has gotten faster, you know,
we've seen this huge explosion in in
multi-core and now in GPUs and you know
so there's a bottomup innovation trend
there too which which you can also look
at and say well this enables all of
these new new things
and Um and then broadly kind of across
the world like what what are the big
trends that are going on? What are the
things that are changing in our
industry? What are the things that are
changing in in the world? And really it
is those kind of moments of change that
have the you know bring with them the
opportunity to to to build things and
and and to recognize problems. And so to
pick one, you know, concretely, uh, you
know, when I was in, uh, working in the
Lambda team in in in 2020, and I was
talking to a lot of customers about, you
know, they were super excited about
building on serverless. They were super
excited about building on containers.
There had been this massive shift. And
what people were seeing then was, wow, I
love these serverless products. I love
building this way, but the world of data
and especially relational data doesn't
fit super well into this this paradigm,
right? These relational databases are
still very serful, you know,
fantastically powerful products, but but
not kind of operationally the same. And,
you know, that thinking was, you know,
just felt super important to me of like,
wow, these customers have have brought
to me a gift of of understanding
something that's really important. And
and so I joined the Aurora team. We
built Aurora Serverless and then we
built uh we built the SQL. You know,
we've been investing deeply across all
of our database products to make them a
better fit for these um you know uh
serverless and and and container
workloads. And that is an example of of
a trend that was brought by you know
brought by a customer. Um but then also
these trends that have been driven by
kind of architecture
um by other things going on right faster
networks, faster compute, faster
connectivity. And so one of the big
technical trends in the database world
right now is uh the sort of block
storage becoming the default backend,
the default uh durability layer for uh
for databases of all kinds from
analytics workloads to online workloads.
And there's been this incredible
explosion around that. And so if you
look at what we did with Aurora DSQL,
for example, you know, that was very
much learning from that trend and and
taking a lead on that trend and saying,
well, we're going to make S3, this this
block store that we built uh, you know,
20 years ago, uh, sorry, object store
that we built 20 years ago, uh, the
underlying
uh, durability layer of this new
database. but obviously it doesn't have
the latency properties or or or the rich
interface that that that an online
database needs. And so we're going to
build an architecture on top of that
that deals with all of these other
things in a much better way, but doesn't
have to worry about durability.
And you know, so that was this perfect
collision of a set of things I was
hearing from customers and a set of
things that were technical trends coming
together and thinking, wow, we've we've
got this opportunity to build something
now that is going to be a marketleading
product. Um, that would be hard to
imagine without either of those, you
know, input signals.
&gt;&gt; I I saw something that you wrote. You
mentioned that you were on call for 15
years somewhere in there and I've heard
many stories of more senior engineers
negotiating out of on call because per
unit time it could be perceived as not
that impactful and so why did you stay
on call for so long? I would say that
the
majority of
my inractice knowledge about how to
build distributed systems has come from
being on call uh and analyzing and
deeply understanding
these post-mortems and and and COE's.
Um, you know, one of the one of the
challenges of of, you know, running a
company like AWS and and running large
scale systems is that folks come out of
college with great often great knowledge
of computer science fundamentals, great
programming skills, you know, great
mathematical skills. All of that stuff
is fantastic,
but without the grounded knowledge of
what it actually means to run and
understand, you know, understand
systems.
And you know on call is one of the best
ways to learn those things. Best ways to
see um you know how do systems really
run? How do they really behave? You know
how do customers really use them? What
happens when customers use systems in
unexpected ways? How can we make systems
more resilient to to customers using
them in in in different ways? And I
think that should be almost a goal of on
call, right? If you have folks in your
teams who are on call and they're just
closing the same ticket over and over
and over, well, you know, that's where
you need to just build some automation.
And again, building automation, it's
easier than ever. It's more powerful
than ever. Fantastic. Um, but where you
really want to spend the time of the
deep experts on your team is, you know,
here's something unexpected or or
unusual that's happened in in the
system. Let's deeply understand that and
let's bring that knowledge back to both
improving that system and communicating
broadly to the the company and and and
the outside community what we've learned
from that.
And so one of the most you know one of
the most uh
powerful things we do at AWS is we have
this mechanism of a very broad weekly
meeting where we all get together you
know engineers from across AWS leaders
senior leaders from across AWS and talk
about COE's these postmortems that we
write and what we can learn from them
and how we can apply those lessons
across the whole company And I think
that particular mechanism that
particular kind of w in wed Wednesday
morning meeting that we have um is one
of the things that has been a core
almost causal factor behind a you know
AWS's success
uh because it has allowed us to and
forced us to spend leadership bandwidth
to spend expertise to spend the time of
our best engineers deeply understanding
how our systems operate and why they
operate the way they do. Um, and you
know that level of being just extremely
grounded in reality
uh helps you design better products,
help helps you architect better systems,
you know, helps you think more clearly
about uh the next round of things, helps
you fix, you know, helps you fix issues.
And so it's this fundamental kind of
learning exercise. It's a real blessing.
Um, so I would, you know, I would
recommend on Paul to to anybody who
wants to learn about the practice of of
of distributed systems and I would
certainly recommend
spending time reading COE's, reading
post-mortems and and deeply reflecting
on not only what can we fix tactically,
but what can we fix organizationally and
strategically and what kind of tools
might might need to exist to to prevent
this kind of thing happening again. And
you know you asked earlier about you
know where do ideas come from? This is
another you know fantastic kind of flow
of ideas of saying wow you know we seem
to be solving this same problem over and
over in different ways and getting it
slightly wrong every time. Um you know
can we extract a a tool to do that? Can
we build a service around that? Can we
uh can we build a feature around that to
make it easier for us to get right and
and and easier for our customers to to
get right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's interesting because I think
if you ask most engineers, they they
really avoid on call, but it sounds like
you you kind of go towards it and you've
learned a lot from it because it's a
major source of customer problems.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And again, you know, I think for
me it comes down to optimizing for
finding the most important things to
work on. And you know, if you aren't
close to operating your actual system
and you don't know how it's actually
working,
how are you supposed to identify what to
fix, right? You can come up with some
theories about those, but they're
probably not going to be right. Um and
again like I I I don't think there's a
huge amount of value in
the ro ticket closing work of on call. I
think automation you know should be
doing those kinds of work. But I think
there's fantastic value in you know deep
understanding deep investigations and
and deep reflection on what you learn
from postmortems and coes.
I tried to estimate uh a couple of
months ago for a talk how many industry
postmortems and Amazon COE's I' I'd read
over my career. The best estimate I
could come up to and this was about a
year ago was was between three and
4,000. Um and so uh you know even a
little bit of lesson from each one and
it tends to you know tends to stick.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that was my next question
actually. I I looked at the slides from
that internal presentation and it said
I've read approximately 3,000 cloud
system postmortems from across the
industry and my immediate thought was I
want to ask you what makes a good
postmortem.
So I think you know what makes a really
great postmortem is first really getting
into the details and making sure that
you deeply understand what happened
rather than just assuming what happened
based on on the biases you bring in. Um
and so there's a kind of lesson one
there is if you can't understand what
happened well that teaches you something
about your logging and metrics and
observability and you know and and
simulations and all of these other
things.
And then once you deeply understand what
happened um then the ability then a
great postmortem steps through
the wise behind that and multiple levels
right like why well yeah there was a
code bug okay sure code bugs yes we can
fix that but we can't stop there right
like why was that missed in testing and
validation you know for these reasons uh
you know what can we improve what can we
build around those okay next step, you
know, why, you know, why was our testing
and validation where it was or, you
know, why did we assume a certain thing
about the behavior of the system that we
wouldn't have assumed before? And so as
you sort of get through these deeper and
deeper layers, a a great post-mortem not
only identifies kind of fixes to the
proximal cause, but also identifies
broader fixes to technology, to
organizations, to you know products and
and and and so on. Um and so that's a
kind of multiple levels thing, right?
And you can't get stuck on, you know,
what is the the the most proximal cause
of of an incident, but you also can't
get stuck on this, well, you know,
things fail sometimes and what are we
going to do about it? And um you you
have to come up with a set of, you know,
really concrete action items to fix
things at different levels. fix this
particular line in the software that
that caused something. You know, fix the
testing processes that that didn't catch
that, you know, fix the um you know,
maybe social or or team processes that
led to those technical processes. Um
and you know, and then if you're seeing
patterns across multiple postmortems,
sort of level those up and say, well,
clearly there's a hard underlying
problem here. You know, can we build a
service around that? Can we build a
library around that? Can we build a, you
know, community of practice around that?
You know, are there technical changes we
can make uh to to avoid whole classes of
things? Um so that's quite a long-winded
answer but I I I do think it is it it
all flows from understanding and
understanding and multiple levels like
understanding immediately like what
happened but also understanding you know
broadly what happened you know
technologically and organizationally and
and and in context and then the ability
to connect that particular event or or
or postmortem with other ones you know
and and and and extract those patterns.
You know, one of the things that we we
did in DSQL was we spent a lot of time
as we were designing that looking
around, you know, relational database
related postmortems and thinking about
both our own and our customers and
thinking about, you know, how can we
design a database that helps people
avoid falling into these traps. Um,
and you know, a really common kind of
outage pattern, folks with relational
databases is you have a client on a
distributed system starts a transaction
and then goes out to lunch for whatever
reason and uh, you know, that could be a
GC pause or it could be a lossy network
or it could be a loss of connectivity
and now it's holding locks. Um, and so
if you look at, you know, relational
databases, they don't tend to be
resilient to clients misbehaving in that
way. And that's a really common cause of
uh operational issues for systems built
on relational databases. And so as we
were designing DSQL, we were thinking
how do we avoid
uh broadly that class of problems so
folks can say, hey, I'm going to build
on DSQL and just not have this whole
class of problems. Uh, and you know, I
think that's a really kind of powerful
outer loop of the post-mortem process is
to say, how do we turn all of these
lessons into new services and into
service improvements?
&gt;&gt; How do you prevent misbehaving clients
from being a problem for the database?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So in in DSQL's case um we have uh
we have no pessimistic locking and so
the within the scope of a transaction uh
everything that happens in that
transaction all of the reads happen
using this mechanism called multi-
version concurrency control where every
row in the database we sort of store a
history of versions and so you can read
an old version of a row without blocking
writers and saying hey you can't you
can't update this because I just read
it. Um and then you know locally within
the query processor that's handling a
connection uh we spool the rights
locally and then you get to commit time
and we do this optimistic check of uh
you know can I commit this transaction
at at at the transaction commit time and
so combining those two mechanisms of
having multi-verion concurrency control
and and the scale out storage that comes
with it and the commit time optimistic
checks We can strongly say that you know
there is no way that a reader of a piece
of data can block other writers and
there's a no way that that a writer of
data can block readers. Um writers can
block writers but only um only by
changing data not just by looking at it.
And so you can you know you can say well
you know I can cause um sorry writers
can't block writers but they can prevent
other writers uh transactions from
eventually committing by making a bunch
of changes and that is inherent to the
definition of the particular database
isolation level.
&gt;&gt; Out of curiosity in practice what
percent overhead would you expect for
keeping copies of old rows for the sake
of those stale reads? Yeah, it's
actually surprisingly small. And it's
surprisingly small because if you look
at the access patterns for most online
databases, even ones that do a lot of
write traffic, that right traffic tends
to be quite concentrated. Uh, and you
know, it's quite unusual for an online
database workload or even an analytics
workload to make a second version of
every row in the database. Typically
what it's doing is making a, you know,
first, second, third, hundth version of
this row and a 50th version of that row,
but the vast majority of data isn't
changing. And so it's super workload
dependent. Uh, as as is everything in in
in the database world. Uh, but the
overhead tends to be relatively small.
Uh I would say it's unusual for
a online database workload for that
overhead on storage to be more than
about 10%.
&gt;&gt; From my experience, I've seen an
interesting dichotomy between teams
where some teams they really understand
postmortem culture. They tend to be
infrastructure teams. They tend to take
it really seriously and everyone in on
those teams, the tech leads are asking
you, hey, why why did that happen? and
then you know really follow up and make
sure it's it's not a problem. Then I've
also noticed on other teams that is less
of a strong muscle for those teams that
don't take it too seriously. What would
be your your pitch for why they should
take it seriously?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it all comes down to where you
want to spend your time, right? Do you
want to spend your time improving your
product and and making it better or do
you want to spend your time uh fighting
the same fire over and over? And uh you
know really the culture of building um
you know building great post-mortem
culture is to make sure that at the the
the
pro at the product level and at the
organizational level um you are
fixing known issues
and you are avoiding having the same
problems multiple times. Um, and
typically when I see teams that have,
you know, poor post-mortem culture, I
think they're
probably one of two failure modes there.
You know, one of them is a lack of focus
on just the outcomes, right? Like, you
know, a lack of of of really um I
wouldn't say caring enough. I I think
that's a little bit too too personal,
but being really focused on on, you
know, is this is this product performing
super well? Are we, you know, are we
really making our customers happy? And
that is fundamentally a cultural and and
and leadership cultural problem um of of
setting the right standards. Oh, and by
the way, like I don't think you know
standards should be uh you know should
be uniform, right? Like there are places
where you know the details really really
matter where things like durability are
just critical and and and you do need to
have super high standards in those
places. Um and you know places where you
want to optimize for other things and
and and maybe have you know have have a
a higher production defect rate and I
think that's that's okay um as long as
that's an intentional decision that's
being made. So that's kind of case one,
right? like insufficient focus on the
outcome. I think case two and and this
is a harder one to change is
normalization of kind of operational
heroics. like we don't need to fix these
root causes because our on calls are
super heroic and they're going to stay
up all night and they're going to, you
know, they're going to hack around
things and they don't mind being paged a
hundred times a week and
they can feel from the inside like it's
a good culture, right? Like, oh wow,
these people are super strong owners.
They're super engaged. They really care.
They're really working hard on call. And
those are all good signals. But then
when you look at it from the outside,
it's like, wow, we're not actually
fixing the causes of things. We're just
doing this fantastically expensive
investment of taking all of these people
and their strong ownership and their
expertise and spending them just on on
on this break fix cycle. And that's
where you need to kind of look at it
from the outside and say, well, let's
take this energy of this team, fantastic
energy, and focus it on uh on on
improving the service, getting getting
out of the cycle, finding, you know,
finding new things to fix, finding new
things to build. And that can be hard
because it can be hard for, you know,
those folks who've been in that mode to
look at it and say, "This feels so good.
It feels really like we're we're caring
about our customers and caring about our
product and caring about our business.
Uh to realize that oh no, we're actually
caring about it at the wrong level and
we're not serving our business in the
best possible way by being so narrowly
and tactically focused on this break fix
cycle. And that's where you sort of need
to pop them out and say, well, let's
spend more time thinking about the
postmortem. Let's spend more time
thinking about the causes of things.
Let's let's spend more time addressing
these things in a more uh strategic way.
And wow, okay, now you've got so much
more time to do that because you've
broken the cycle and you can improve
your product in different ways. I mean
since you have worked on AWS for almost
two decades uh I'm sure you have a lot
of experience building distributed
systems and I think one of the most
common advice that you hear I guess this
is maybe in the context of system design
is I I almost hear almost 100% of the
time people will say just throw a cache
on it or you know you'll have a system
design you say how do you make it better
let's put a cash here let's put a cash
there
&gt;&gt; and I saw you had a tweet that said that
there are cases where caches are are bad
despite people saying it's best
practice. I was curious if you could
explain that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, caching is good, right? Like
it's hey, I'm I'm going to uh take the
these core ideas from computer science
of of temporal and spatial locality and
I'm going to exploit those to make my
system faster, scale better, etc. And
so, you know, obviously very attractive.
But the downside of caches especially in
distributed systems is they have this
mode right like they have this um you
know the there's a mode where the cache
is full and the cache is full of the
right data in time and space to perform
very well and there's a mode where the
cache is empty or contains the wrong
data and in the first mode the system is
fast and happy and healthy.
In the second mode, the system is slow,
often down because now the backend isn't
scaled to deal with all of this unacheed
traffic. Customers are very
disappointed. Um, and often it is down
in a stable way. And this is this kind
of idea of metastable failures where the
system has has um switched from state
one to state two and in state two it's
still stable, right? like it's still
it's down but it's not going to come
back up under its own energy because for
example all of this traffic is causing a
huge amount of contention in my database
or is saturating the network and so I
can't even refill the cache it's not
even getting the right kind of data in
and so you know when I talk about the
downsides of caches it's really about
you know how do we avoid that modality
between
you know fast and you know uh the that
that value of caches and the you know
how do we avoid the state where we're
down um and so if I go back to to DSQL
like our answer there is DSQL what we
call the storage tier is essentially a
cache but it is a complete cache it
contains every row in the database um
and so it doesn't have this mode where
how do I recover from it being empty or
containing the wrong data it contains
all of the data
Um
similarly if you look at a a more let's
say classical relational database design
like Aurora the Aurora leader is
constantly telling the potential
failover targets here's something you
should cach here's something you should
catch here's something you should cach
so when a failover happens the cache is
warm on you know on on the failover
target um and so those are the kinds of
things that you can do to avoid those
modalities
but in general
um you know and I I I wouldn't extract
this as a rule or or or or or say that
you know this applies 100% of the time
but in general I prefer to see the teams
around me avoiding caching where
possible. I prefer patterns where you
have a let's say complete materialized
view of the data. If you need very fast
access to it, especially if it's slow
moving, just pull it down onto your
local machine and work with it in
memory. You know, if it's only being
updated once a week, who cares? Like
just make lots of copies of it. Um
uh so that's that's one pattern. Or, you
know, use a scalable backend, you know,
DSQL or Dynamo DB or whatever your f
favorite scalable database is. and keep
your database vendor honest about
getting to the the scale and performance
you need rather than putting a cache in
front of things. So caching isn't a bad
pattern, but it is a pattern with some
significant downsides that are, you
know, really uh best avoided.
&gt;&gt; In practice, how how often do you see
that metastable failure though?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, you know, this is uh it's not it's
not super common, right? like you might
go years without seeing you know
something like that but if you look
across
the biggest most impactful
uh you know system postmortems across
the industry I would say that these
kinds of metastable failures have been
an underlying cause in probably a
majority of them and it's super
important that you know as an industry
and as a community of practice we
understand those things deeply because
the also those cases where these do
happen, you know, tend to be larger
scale issues, longer recovery time
issues and and and more complex to fix
issues, right? Where you have to often,
you know, turn it off and turn it back
on again, which is this very very
painful thing for a a a team or an
organization to do. Um and you know and
so again like you you might go here it's
operating a system we're seeing nothing
like this and and but if you look at the
most impactful issues it's actually
fairly common as an underlying cause for
those issues and so you know it's kind
of both of these things being quite
uncommon and being being rather common.
I was reading your blog and you have a
series of posts on how AI may impact the
future of software engineering and I
kind of want to pick your brain on that.
So what's your perspective on how you
think AI will u impact software
engineering and how it'll change things?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean it's you know hard maybe
harder than ever to tell the future and
so you know this is a a set of uh maybe
guesses uh and and and predictions about
about the future. Um so I'll I'll say
the first thing I I you know I deeply
believe about software is
we have only just started to see the
impact that software is going to have on
the world. There is such an opportunity
for more software to exist, bigger
software, better software, more personal
software, you know all of these things.
And so software has throughout its
60-ish year history been supply
constrained
and you know I think that's going to
remain true. I think the opportunity for
for software in the world is is just you
know almost uh almost unbounded. Um and
that's really exciting right? It's
really exciting to be at a moment when
the economics of building software are
changing and and are changing rather
quickly. Um and that gives us an
opportunity to think about what could we
do in the world with a lot more
software. Um you know a a lot more
software personalization, a lot more
just the right software in the right
place at the right time.
And
you know that gives me a huge amount of
you know excitement about the future of
of this industry. uh because you know we
we have a massive opportunity ahead of
us both driven by these changing
economics of software development.
Um now also with those changes there are
going to be needs for you know us as as
software practitioners, people who build
software, people who who love software
to to adapt and uh you know that that
means that that software careers are
going to look different. um uh they're
going to look different early on,
they're going to look different later
on. I think the software business is
going to look different and the
um success of people in organizations
over the next uh you know next who knows
5 years decade is going to be largely
predicated on their ability to adapt to
that change and and to lead that change.
You told this story about this guy who
bet on analog circuits when obviously we
know digital became kind of the more
more dominant way. Yet he made he made
good money for the people who maybe
don't want to adapt. You could still get
by and succeed. It's not going to be
like a crazy thing. Is that is that kind
of the takeaway and why you brought up
that story?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I I think that's that's the
right takeaway. And so if I sort of
break down, you know, the the the world
into three tiers, uh you know, I think
there's going to remain a huge amount of
joy in the craft of software. Um you
know, like the craft of of joinery with,
you know, with hand saws, right? Like
it's it's a nice way to spend time. It's
not a particularly economically
interesting activity anymore, but not
everything we do has to be an
economically interesting opportunity. it
can just be something I do because I
enjoy it, because I enjoy the product of
it, because I enjoy talking to people
about it, right? And so there's, you
know, I I I don't think that is going to
go away. I think we're going to see, you
know, a lot of interest in in that. Like
there's been interest in in retro
computing and, you know, people who run
an Apple 2 as their desktop and like
well again it's wildly impractical. It's
not economically interesting, but it's
fun and something I, you know, could do
as a hobby. And so, you know, that's
that's going to be a remaining part of
of of the world of software for probably
forever. Um, and then there's this this,
you know, kind of story that that I told
in the blog post. And I think this
relates to, you know, driving change in
the real world is always harder than it
looks from the outside, right? Like as
you get into the details, things become
more difficult. They become more
dependent on people. They become more
dependent on politics and policy and um
you know our our various irrationalities
as humans and and so driven by that
you know there is going to be a huge
amount of and a shrinking over time
amount but a but a huge amount of the
software industry that is run in what I
might call the old way right past
techniques past languages past
technologies
And there's real economic opportunity in
engaging with that part of the you know
part of the world. Um you know as we saw
with with analog electronics analog
electronics still very much exist. In
fact there are parts of the world like
you know like radio and power systems
where there's been incredible techn
technological advancement in in in those
fields. Uh but they have become more
niche and so you know digital became the
mainstream. We wouldn't be talking like
we are today if it wasn't for this uh
you know 12 orders of magnitude or
whatever explosion in in digital
transistor counts.
Um
but there's interesting opportunity
there and I think that interesting
opportunity is going to change shape and
and and become more and more specialized
and and and more and more niche and and
great careers to be built there. Um and
then there is the mainstream which I
think is going to adopt these new
technologies from agentic development to
AI powered development to you know
specificationdriven development um and
you know a whole lot of other you know
new things whose names we don't even
know yet.
um to build software at a speed and a
cost that is unimaginable to do with
with the old techniques
and I think that is where correctly the
majority of the industry is going to be
going. I think that's where the majority
of careers are going to be built. I
think that's where the majority of um
economic opportunity is. It's the space
I'd be in if I was building a company
today. It's the space I'm in in my role.
um and you know the one I would sort of
personally be most excited about but
yeah it isn't the only one I think
there's going to be this spectrum of
software practice and especially where
software engages with the physical world
uh there are going to be some really
interesting
um questions about how do we bring these
new technologies how do we bring these
new practices into
um the various many niches that software
is going to and has you know over over
six decades kind of wormed its way into.
&gt;&gt; It's interesting you you mentioned
joinery. I wonder if down the road we
will see apps on the app store that
people pay extra for because it's
marketed as this was written by a human
or it's it was written by hand. It's a
bespoke uh you custom app. Um crazy how
the world's going to change. But so it
sounds like you know change is obviously
the the common case. It's the one that
we should be thinking about. Maybe we
can break up the conversation into two
parts. One is for junior engineers, what
is important given that code is kind of
flowing like water now.
&gt;&gt; At risk of being a bit meta about our
past conversation, it really is about
finding those problems that matter and
and and doing that early in in a career.
And you know that requires an
understanding of customers. It requires
an understanding of the business. It
requires an understanding of of
economics and and and of systems and
that can I I think that's going to move
from being you know almost kind of
senior engineer work of like oh well you
know now you're going to go and talk to
customers and actually understand the
context of the stuff you're building to
being more and more part of even the
earliest steps of an engineering career,
right? like here's the context, here's
the problem, here's the customer, let's
go off and work together and solve, you
know, and and and and solve this problem
with all of this context. Um, and I
think that's going to be
super exciting for one set of folks uh
and a little bit frustrating for people
who have come into
um you know looking for a pure software
development career, right? looking for a
career where they sit down, open their
IDE,
start typing, and and and don't stop for
eight hours. I think that's going to be
a mode that we're going to see fewer
people in, and a mode that's going to be
harder and harder to build a career
around. Now, the other mode of, oh, I'm
excited to go off and learn from my
customers about what they're building
and what they need. I think that's going
to be ever more highly, you know, highly
valuable and so super exciting
opportunity to build, you know, build
careers there. And then maybe and and
this might come across as being a little
bit um you know paradoxical. I think
there's also a ton of opportunity for
you know folks who are extremely
technically deep um you know who are uh
you know deep on optimization problems
or deep on infrastructure problems or
deep on you know various scientific
things or deep on databases or deep on
you know one of the many many topics
that are are behind our industry
because I think the ability to
ask the right questions is also much
more valuable than it was has ever been.
And so I think there is a ton of
opportunity for people coming into the
industry with deep technical or
scientific knowledge to now leverage
that in ways that you know maybe were um
were hard before right there was too
much sort of boilerplate to really you
know to really use that leverage that
you have. And so I think we're going to
see a lot more of of of those kinds of
careers of really kind of building
expertise in a technical topic, in a
scientific topic, and then be able to
turn that into software and software
products in a way that
was really difficult before and in some
cases wasn't possible before and is now
um you know vastly easier. If I was to
look at a career ladder's expectations,
some of what you described of maybe
engaging with the customers and
understanding the business context
uniquely in software engineering, it
feels like the earliest levels are
insulated from all of that. You have
your your tech lead tech leads handing
out tasks and then the early level
engineers just given task just convert
it into code. And it sounds like, you
know, that part's relatively solved. And
if not now, maybe I I'd be surprised if
a year or two from now wasn't like
completely solved. Um, and I I think
that could scare a lot of junior
engineers cuz they they would think
you're going to expect me to graduate
from college or start working as
software engineer and then I would have
the senior engineer expectations. Um,
what would you say to the the scared
software engineer that's just entering
the industry with all this change?
Yeah, you know, I think um well, I would
remind them that, you know, we as people
who hire and build organizations of
software engineers and and they as
people who have are building software
engineering careers have have really
um aligned incentives, right? Like you
know it it's not valuable to hire a
bunch of people and set them up to fail.
Like that's no nobody wants that. it's
it's it's not an outcome uh that is good
for anybody. And so, yeah, we're going
to need to figure out how do you support
people on on that path? How do you help
people learn those things? How do you
give them the right guard rails? You
know, hey, that first time that you go
out and talk to a customer, yeah, it's
got to be scary. My my first time
talking to an AWS customer uh was, you
know, was it was was super scary. But,
you know, I I I got a bunch of help with
that and I got a bunch of advice and I
got a bunch of mentorship and I got a
bunch of feedback and I got better and
better at that over time. And I think
that's exactly what these things look
like is, you know, you start off and you
you start small and and and and you
learn, you know, as you go and and and
so that feedback loop goes faster. And
so I don't expect that people coming in
from college or, you know, will will
come in with all of this knowledge. I
think you know it's never been true that
people coming into technical or
engineering careers straight out of
college know everything or any career
for that matter right like you talk to
to teachers about you know what they've
learned on their job versus what they
learned you know studying uh you know
they learn a huge amount in in in things
like internships and and so on and over
the course of a career um or doctors or
or anybody in you know in in a field
like that um and so yeah it is going to
be about learning and I think the
emphasis on what people learn is going
to be different. I think it is going to
require, you know, leaders like me who,
you know, care deeply about, you know,
hiring and and and developing folks
early in their career to be really
thoughtful about what, you know, what
does that new letter look like? And um
and, you know, we're we're doing a lot
of that thinking. I think people are
doing that kind of thinking across the
industry. Uh, and uh, yeah, it's
changing fast. It's it's uncertain. And
it's it's it's an interesting time to to
to be graduating. But again, like it's a
super exciting time. I think that just
the the scale of the opportunity is
bigger than it's ever been.
&gt;&gt; Sounds like your advice for senior
engineers is different from that of
junior engineers. What What is your
thinking there? Yeah, I mean I think uh
you know I think for for folks there the
challenge is is is how do you you know
how do you retain the value of of this
incredible experience and knowledge that
you've gained over a career while you
know not falling behind uh while
learning how to you know best best use
the tools and you know when I look at
senior folks this is a is a challenge
you know ahead of them I think a lot of
people have found themselves in
influence and and and leadership type
positions where they aren't hands-on
building, you know, every day. And I
think it's going to be harder and harder
to be in that kind of role and be able
to influence and advise in a um
in a relevant way, in a in a in a
positive way. Um and so really, I think
my advice for folks is is is you kind of
got to get building. like you got to get
back in get back into it. You need to
deeply understand how the practice of
building software and the practice of
designing software has changed and and
is continuing to change and and so the
challenge is how do I, you know, really
take advantage of all of this knowledge
and expertise that I've built up in my
career and be super curious and be super
hands-on and really be in the details.
And the good news for that well I think
there's two bits of good news. One of
them is because of these new tools you
know time spent as a practitioner is is
so much more leveraged than it is today.
You can build so such cool stuff uh you
know in in during that period of time
the the amount of kind of wasted time
and boilerplate and so on is is so much
smaller and so you really do have this
opportunity. And the other one is again
like why did you know why did we get
into the space? Well, I didn't get into
it so I could go to meetings and sound
smart. I got into it because I love
learning and because I love building
technology and because I love, you know,
solving my customers problems and
because I love, you know, learning about
new, you know, new technologies and
learning new things and and there's more
opportunity to do that than ever before
again, you know, because of this this
new set of tools and the leverage that
comes with them. And so really is
getting back to, you know, why are you
here? Why did you get into this career?
And I think it really gets us as
technology focused people closer to the
our original answer to that. It's really
obvious to me right now when I speak to,
you know, practitioners,
you know, who and who isn't using a, you
know, modern set of agentic powered
developer practices, right? and the
people who are um have these really
interesting things to say about the
strengths and weaknesses of those
approaches and the work that still needs
to be done and the integrations that
still need to be done and the things
that are working and aren't. uh and the
people who aren't, you know, using them
hands-on
have
such a poor mental model of how they
work, what they're good at, what they're
not good at, that the things they say
about them tend to v tend to be
essentially fiction. Um, and so, you
know, I think we are in this minute that
if you aren't doing it hands-on, your
opinion about it is is very likely to be
completely wrong. And that takes a level
of humility to admit that, you know, is
is is tough. You know, is tough for
folks with fancy titles and is tough for
folks with with distinguished careers.
Uh but I I think it's a must.
&gt;&gt; I I feel like there's a common sentiment
among software engineers when they when
they work with someone who is a, you
know, quote unquote tech lead, but
they're not really hands-on. So, they've
kind of been in the docks for the last
five years or or so, and there's these
minor things they can tell that this
person doesn't actually understand the
underlying thing. And sounds like that
gap will widen with these new tools,
which is if you're you're looking at
things from a,000 ft up and you're not
actually using the tools, that's just
another thing that separates you from
the people who are actually building
where you'll be very out of touch. And I
I think uh you know when I look at I
think that's always been true. I think
it is wider than you know ever before.
Um
and but when I look at the you know
engineering leaders that I've really
respected and learned a huge amount from
over my career uh you know for example
some of the folks who who built S3 you
know 20 20 years ago
that was such a successful product
because those folks were so deep in the
details and so grounded on the use cases
and so deep in the economics and and
really just did um you know really
thought about
uh both the kind of strategic world of
like how is this cloud thing going to
change the way people want to interact
with storage but also the you know
minute-to-minute details of what's fast
now what's slow good what's bad and I
think you know when you think about a
extremely enduring product like S3
um
or or EC2 I think it's it's been that
groundedness in the details from from
early on from all levels of leadership
that has made those things so
successful. Um where you know other
products seemingly with the same amount
of early promise didn't turn out to be
as successful.
&gt;&gt; I think one of the last topics that I
wanted to ask you about was writing. Um
you have a ton of awesome posts on your
blog. The style of writing is incredibly
clear and I I was curious why do you
write so much as an engineer?
&gt;&gt; Writing and and speaking u but
especially writing have this incredible
power um and you know for for technical
folks it's this incredible multiplier in
being able to take these ideas that's in
your head and share them with the world.
Um and you know you can can take a set
of technical ideas in your head and
share them with the world by building a
great product and that's a fantastic
thing to do. uh you can share them in
the world kind of one- on-one, you know,
mentorship, teach people, learn, small
groups also a great way to spend time,
but the multiplication factor of doing a
talk or even more of of writing
something is so much higher, right? Like
there are so many more people that you
can share that with and it lasts for a
much longer period of time. Um, and so
just having something written on my blog
even that I wrote like a decade ago that
I can share with someone and say, you
know, here's, you know, here's how to
think about this problem. Here's an
insight that I I I wanted to share with
you or or have people discover that
organically is just super powerful. And
so writing lets you scale out the impact
of your expertise in in space and time
in a way that's really hard to do in
other media. I think with with video and
with podcasts and so on, you know, we've
seen other ways to do that, but I think
writing remains kind of uniquely
powerful.
And then there's this also this idea
which is this kind of core belief
culturally at Amazon and I've obviously
been in affected by this over the years
that you know writing forces a level of
mental clarity that speaking making
slide decks etc doesn't and you know
that's something that has also really
been my experience of sitting down to
write something down forces me to think
that through at a depth that I wouldn't
have been been forced to think it
through without that. Um and so I saw
one of you know your early conversations
with was with Leslie Lamport who kind of
takes that a step further and say hey
you know it's formal mathematics that is
the next step there and I I love that
point. Um but I I I think writing is
this really accessible thing for for
people to do that does force a level of
thinking. And so I do a lot of writing
sometimes just for myself, right? Like
I'll I'll write a doc not ever intending
to share it with anybody but just to
sharpen my own thinking on a on a
particular point. And so it's some of
that combination of three things, right?
Like I just I just have something to say
and I want to say it. Um you know I have
something to say and I want to scale it
out in in time and space and I want to
sharpen my own thinking on a on a
subject.
um or or or the thinking of a small
group on a subject in a way that writing
is just a super powerful tool to to do.
Definitely. Yeah. I remember being
surprised early in my career. I had a
manager or tech lead who we would write
these these docs on you the designs or
the strategy and he said even if you
just wrote it and you threw it away it
would still be worthwhile because you'll
realize things as you're writing and
that clarity will save you a lot of time
down the road. Um and it's interesting
to me because a lot of engineers they
complain about writing docs. docs and
you know all the stuff around the code.
They kind of they kind of hate that. I
say it's a sign of slow big company
processes and you know what would you
say to an engineer like that who's
saying I just just let me write the
code?
&gt;&gt; Yeah and that's a great you know that's
a great point and I think it really
depends on the level of problem you're
trying to solve. And so, you know, if I
look at
I'm going to pick on UML for a minute
here, right? Like it's a sort of
semiformal software design process and
not one that I've ever found useful
because I think it just happens at the
wrong semantic level. I think it's
bothered with details at a level that
aren't helpful. Um, and I think a lot of
the let's go off and document this has
has a similar problem, right? like does
this actually require that level of
reflection and thinking? Um and so I
think what you know for me separates a
valuable doc writing and and thinking
process from a busy work process is
understanding what you're getting out of
it. And what you're getting out of it
might be an artifact to share with the
future which is super valuable. um
either your future self if you've got a
terrible memory like me or you know new
teams new people people you know or I
want to share something with customers
or I want to share something with the
world and so that's super valuable or I
want to write down something so I can
think through a really difficult often
one-way door kind of un hard to change
technical decision or API design
decision and I'm not going to do do that
every time I make a technical decision.
It's not worth it because a lot of those
technical decisions are either easy or
or not as critical or can be just be
taken back if we figure out they're
wrong. But I am going to to spend my
time that way when there are key
decisions to make, when there are key um
insights to to find.
And
I think you know and so it is that like
what is the purpose of writing uh that
uh that that separates well spent time
from poorly spent time. Now there are
people who still don't like writing even
when it's well spent time even when it's
like
you know you have to explain this piece
of technology to you know to a future
team um I think that's a skill worth
developing you know sometimes you you do
need to you know uh eat your vegetables
uh you know and it's it's it is a skill
worth getting good at
um and you know especially in
documenting the core kind of technical
decisions behind a design is is so
useful and that's useful in two ways by
the way like one of them is as we think
about building a big system um we make
thousands of decisions and some of those
decisions are very carefully chosen very
particular and very impactful
and some of those decisions are the best
thing we could guess in the moment based
on having no data to make that decision.
And it's super useful for people who are
coming in to improve that system down
the line to be able to look at the
design and say which of these things
were very carefully chosen and thought
through and which of these things were
arbitrary
and because the arbitrary things like
okay well I'm going to change that and
I'm going to just go ahead and change
that because I have better data now I've
watched the system run I can go and
change those and these other ones are
like well let me really engage with the
reason that we made this decision maybe
it was nonobvious this maybe there with
some some more advanced thinking. And so
being able to kind of understand the
amount of thought that went into a
decision is almost as important as
understanding what that thought was.
&gt;&gt; You had a really interesting blog post.
This was um from a while back. It's it's
titled the four hobbies and apparent
expertise. And you introduced this
really interesting idea. It's a 2 by two
matrix and on one side there's doing
versus discussing and on the other side
there's the hobby and the gear. Maybe I
can overlay it for people who want to
see. And then later you you kind of
liken that to your career and how I
guess maybe we could imagine the hobby
is is actually coding and maybe the gear
is let's just say it's like your dev
setup or something like that. You talked
about these two aspects of being in in
depending on which quadrant you are,
which is there's this trade-off between
expertise and visibility where imagine
you're really into coding and you're
really into doing, you're going to be
phenomenal in terms of expertise, but
maybe not as visible because you're not
talking with everyone about how cool
your setup is and and all of that. And
on the flip side, if you're really into
the gear or maybe you're set up in this
case and you're really into discussing,
you're you're on all the messaging posts
and that you might not actually be that
good at at coding, but you're very
visible and you have this apparent
competence. And I thought that trade-off
was really interesting because I've seen
that so much in software engineering,
too, is there might be someone who's
really quiet coder. They never write
anything, but they know everything
because they've just been in the weeds
all the time. And then there are people
on the complete opposite end of the
spectrum that writing all the time,
speaking all the time, but maybe not
actually practicing as much. And my
question to you is how do you strike
that balance? Because obviously too far
in either direction is not optimal. So,
how do you strike that balance?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's uh you know that's that's
something that I reflect on a on a lot.
uh you know and I do explicitly think
that sort of being 100% on either of
those ends is a is a is is a failure
mode and I think you know I I will say
that I have a lot more
personal enjoyment working with the
people that are 100% on the doing side
and and 0% on the talking side. I I I I
appreciate and deeply you know deeply
love their expertise. Um, but I I I do
think that, you know, they they could
have more impact and and and leverage if
if if they, you know, swung a little bit
away from that. Um, you know, I I tend
to not enjoy as much interacting with
the people who are 100% on on on on the
speaking side. Um
uh but I I and I think they would, you
know, have a lot more
relevant things to say, you know, if if
if they, you know, swung a little bit
back towards the center.
The other challenge of being on 100% on
the doing side, it sort of gets back to
that how do you find the really
important problems? And you know, if
your head's down in your IDE all day,
you could very likely be working on the
wrong thing.
um you know something that that isn't as
as important isn't as impactful um you
know doesn't have these properties that
that people want. So you know how how do
you find the optimal balance? Uh I don't
have a have a recipe for you know what
really is is optimal.
I tend to do about let's say 7525
kind of practitioner versus you know
teaching and and and and communicating
maybe 8020 at times. I found that's
about what feels right for me. Um
I would say that you know they're great
people I work with you know from sort of
9010 on that scale up to about 50/50 on
that scale. I think you know outside of
those you know folks tend to um you know
tend to get into trouble um as
practitioners right like you know there
are people whose job it is to be you
know communicators and and that's great
as long as they have the curiosity and
and are clear about what they you know
know and and don't know um but you know
I found that sweet spot at that sort of
7525 point in in in my career and and
that's what's what's worked for me I I
think
um and I I I think in this moment where
things are changing so fast, there's so
much to learn. Um you know, swinging a
little bit more towards the practitioner
side I think generally will help people.
But again, you don't want to go too far
that way because then you lose the um
you know, what's important view that
comes with interacting with the outside
world. On the doing versus discussing
axis, I I kind of view the doing one as
if you were too far, you would be
underrated. And if you were too far on
the discussing, you would be overrated.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And if for someone who's structuring
their career, uh, would you say it's
better to be overrated or underrated?
&gt;&gt; I think long term, you know, if if
you're if you're using that terminology,
it's probably better to be underrated. I
think, you know, being being overrated
can feel great in the moment, um, but is
rarely sustainable,
uh, and and and really sort of gets you
where to where you you you you need to
be. I really enjoy, you know, uh,
you things like sports and and and you
know, these sort of creative hobbies and
and, you know, crafts because it it it
does, you know, turn that um, let's say
perception and reality knob to to very
much reality, right? Like as a as a as a
sports person, you can't you can't fool
the world for very long. uh it it very
quickly becomes uh you know very obvious
you know who who can and who can't uh
you know I think as a as a crafts person
the same right it very quickly becomes
um obvious who who can and who can't and
I think it takes a little bit longer in
a field like ours where there are is so
much kind of qualitative stuff that goes
on um but I think long term when I look
at you know careers that I really admire
and people I really admire uh they tend
to be people who are personally very
honest about their level of of knowledge
and understanding and skill.
&gt;&gt; So people who walk the walk, not
necessarily Yeah. talk the talk. I see.
Yeah. About engineers that you admire.
I'd be curious because you have worked
at AWS and for such a long time and you
have seen so many legendary engineers.
Who at AWS do you look up to and and
why?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean you know just just
fantastic. One of the blessings of
working at a place like AWS is I get to
work with so many great people. Um, you
know, maybe because he's retired, I'll
I'll I'll talk a little bit about so
Elva Muan uh was was one of the sort of
early engineers at AWS and um original
say huge contributor to the design of
S3, a really big contributor to the
design of our lot of a lot of our
database services over time. Um El was
actually the the CTO of Amazon for a for
a period of time when he realized I
think that wasn't the job he wanted to
do. Um but I you know what I really
admired about uh about El from early in
my career is
you know very clearly he was somebody
who deeply understood the things he was
he was doing and he could work in these
two modes right like you know I I have a
great um memory of a sort of 2010ish uh
you know arguing with Al about some of
the edge cases in in the the Paxos paper
and you know he was super deep at that
level but could also get up to the the
really kind of executive level and talk
about you know cloud strategy and the
way we should be explaining things to
people and some of the you know sort of
fundamental things that we need to be
building. Um, and I really admired that
ability to work sort of almost at at
every level. And I was like, "Wow, you
know, this is this is something I aspire
to. Um, and uh, you know, want to model
my want to model my own career after."
Um,
and so, you know, that's I I think that
is uh, you know, the kind of person I've
really, you know, really enjoyed working
with is is people who do have that, you
know, do have that breadth. Um, and I
think, you know, one of the other things
that is, you know, really admirable
about a lot of these folks is, you know,
they they don't want to be celebrities,
right? They they they want to do cool
work for, you know, have an impact, do
great stuff for customers, you know,
optimize for having impact. you know for
people who want to continue their
engineering education and really remain
on top of things deeply understand the
technology do you have any top technical
book recommendations
&gt;&gt; you know anybody who's building
distributed system things I I I highly
recommend um Martin Kipman's book um I I
think there's a second edition of that
coming out you know soon um there's a
new edition of quantitative systems
design book which I also I think is is
is great. Sorry. Hennessy and
Patterson's computer architecture book.
Uh this this is a super you know super
useful one that covers a a ton of
ground. I I I read a ton of uh you know
fiction and and and non-fiction and and
mostly papers when I'm reading technical
things. I find you know I find engaging
at that level you know more more useful
for me. Um and by the way that's that's
become way more uh accessible now. You
know, one of the great ways to dive into
a paper is, you know, hey, uh, you know,
hey Claude, summarize this for me and
then then I can dive into it and and and
read, you know, the author's words. And
I I find that mode is great and and this
is super accessible for people who
haven't been able to read papers uh in
in the past. Um,
but uh, you know, and then there's also
a ton of insight in in some really old
stuff, too. uh for example
um you know some of the
algorithms that we used in in in Lambda
uh to to manage traffic and and manage
bursts of traffic come from Erlang's
work like a hundred years ago on on
managing telephone call centers uh and
and his book about that and um and so
you know folks also shouldn't think that
oh well the industry is changing super
fast and so I should only read recent
things like there's
incredible insights in some of the, you
know, older work um and in the
foundations of
computing and infrastructure and and and
networking and and computer science that
there's um you know, more again more
maybe more leveraged than ever before,
you know, deeply understanding those
topics. And then last question for you
is if you could go back to your younger
self when you just joined AWS and give
yourself some advice, what would you
say?
&gt;&gt; I think maybe be a little bit bolder. I
really loved the team that I worked with
and and you know you know especially in
EC2 and and in the early days in EBS and
I think I was a little bit more hesitant
than was optimal about leaving those
teams and and looking for the next
thing. um you know as
um you know my
own learning and impact kind of you know
tapered off a little bit in in in those
those places and so you know I think
I've changed organizations kind of
in a big way four times in my career and
maybe five or six would have been
optimal not a lot more but but some more
uh and so you know don't don't hesitate
uh to think about you know what am I
learning and who am I learning from and
is there a better environment to to to
do that you know more quickly and uh and
and to learn more things and you know
I'm highly personally highly motivated
by being able to follow my curiosity and
every time I've done that in my career I
found that a valuable move
uh and uh and something that I've you
know personally enjoyed.
&gt;&gt; Awesome. Okay. Well, thank you so much
for your time. I I really appreciate it,
Mark. Uh, thank you for sharing with the
the audience.
&gt;&gt; This has been super fun. Thanks so much.
&gt;&gt; Thank you for listening to the podcast.
It's a passion project of mine that I've
really enjoyed building. Another passion
project that I've been working on kind
of in secret is building an ergonomic
keyboard that I wish existed. And I
finally have a prototype. So, I'd love
to show you what we've built. It's ultra
low profofile and ergonomic. And I
couldn't find anything like it on the
market. So that's why we built it. I'll
put a link to the keyboard in the
description. You can take a look and
learn more about the project there. We
could definitely use your support. Also,
if you have any feedback for me about
the show, I'd love to hear it. Comments
on YouTube have led to guests coming on
like Ilia Gregoric and David Fowler. I
wasn't aware of them until someone
dropped a comment. Also, feedback in the
comments helped me learn to reduce the
number of cliffhers in the intros. So,
your comments definitely make a
difference. Please keep letting me know
what you'd like to see more of in the
show, and I'll see you in the next
episode.
