原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T9CGjbPZeaM

Don't do incremental work.
&gt;&gt; This is Barbara Liskov. She's a Turing
Award winner famous for her fundamental
contributions to programming languages
and distributed systems.
&gt;&gt; Encapsulation is an crucial part of
making modularity work. Your team is
really only as strong as your weakest
programmer.
&gt;&gt; I asked her for stories from her career.
That paper was the go-to statements
considered harmful. Is Dystra in person
also like his writing? He was not always
as tactful as he might be.
&gt;&gt; There were people saying, "Why did she
get the turning award? Why do you think
that they said that about your work?"
Here's the full episode.
You applied to multiple places and
Princeton was one of them and they had
rejected you on the grounds of you being
a a woman. How did you get into
programming in an environment that's so
hostile?
&gt;&gt; Okay, so this was when I got my
bachelor's degree
and I applied to several graduate
programs in math, which is what I
majored in as an undergraduate.
And I got this little card back. It was
a postcard from Princeton saying, "We do
not admit women." Which was surprising.
Um, I knew they didn't have women in
their undergraduate program, but I
hadn't realized it extended to the
graduate program. Um, but you know, it
was how it was. So, so what happened was
I did get into Berkeley, which is where
I did my undergraduate work, but I
decided I really wasn't ready to do a
PhD in math and that I should get a job
instead and just sort of see, you know,
see how things were. and uh the best job
offer I got was as a programmer.
So that's how I got into computer
science by a happy accident.
&gt;&gt; You were consistently at least at
Berkeley, you were consistently a top
student. So it's it it is odd that you
wouldn't even get an opportunity to play
in some cases,
&gt;&gt; but that's how it was back then. It was
just I hadn't realized it was more than
an undergraduate thing and Berkeley was
co-ed. So, you know, there what I found
was there weren't very many women in my
classes. There were lots of women
students, but very few of them majoring
in math and there were only maybe a
couple of women in my classes, but the
uh the idea that a door was shut and
women couldn't do things, that was not
what went on at Berkeley. So, it was a
different environment. Of course
nowadays in the top schools the um women
are about 50% in computer science.
&gt;&gt; I want to talk about some of the the
core problems that you were solving in
your career. And so I understand that
there's the software crisis in the 1970s
and I was wondering if you could give
the context behind what the problem was
at that time. Well, it was a huge
problem at the time because uh people
did not know how to build big programs
that worked. And so you would often pick
up the newspaper and see an article
about some company that had spent
u you know millions of dollars and
hundreds of man years developing some
software system for their company and
then in the end they'd have to throw it
away because they it simply didn't work.
The problem was that to get a big
program that works, you need modularity
and you need to break your program up
into small pieces.
Each piece provides an interface with a
hopefully complete description of what
service it provides for you. And then
inside is an implementation that's
hidden and nobody pays any attention to
it on the outside. And if you have a
system organized like that, you can
actually reason about its correctness
one module at a time. But in those days,
people didn't know how um they couldn't
figure out how to design systems that
were modular. And the only kind of
modularity mechanism present in
programming languages was a procedure.
And procedures didn't match the kinds of
modules you needed. Because if you think
about a file system or a database or you
know Amazon or whatever you know they
they aren't a procedure where you put
something in and get something out
they're a much more complicated thing.
So there was no notion of a module that
sort of matched the kind of things that
people were looking for.
&gt;&gt; So when you saw that problem you know
what were the early solutions like?
Well, so people were proposing
modularity and they were talking about
how important modularity was. They
didn't exactly know what a module was
and so it wasn't like they could give
you a rule. This is a module. It was
just a chunk of code. In fact, there
were papers written that talked about
how big a module should be and stuff
like that. Just a chunk of code. That's
not going to work because you need to
design these systems. So you need a way
of thinking of a design that sort of
fits into this notion of modularity.
They also didn't really know what the
rules should be for modularity.
And um it turned out that in some of the
early work I did after grad school when
I was working at MITER um I had already
invented a notion of modularity that was
sort of more complete than what people
had been talking about just because I
had a small team of programmers. we were
building a complicated system and I
wanted to keep us out of trouble and so
I had that sort of sitting there when I
started to work on this topic. Um and it
enabled me to see this idea of data
abstraction.
All of a sudden I sort of saw that this
thing I had this kind of modularity
mechanism which consisted of basically
what I just described
a a a bunch of code providing you with
an access through a number of what I
called operations. So you could call it
in various ways and then inside was all
hidden and whatever data it was using
was not accessible to the outside.
And then at some point I so I could see
this as a data abstraction. It could be
a set, it could be a sequence, it could
you know and so forth. And um and that
meant we had a new type of module. Now
when I look back at the papers from the
time I see that idea, it's almost there
except people hadn't managed to pick it
out. And so it was probably I think this
happens in science a lot. There's sort
of a time when an idea is ready and I
happen to see it.
&gt;&gt; You pieced these together and you put it
into the clue programming language that
you were working on. How did you see it
influencing the industry? The first
thing that happened was I wrote a paper
with um a a a man who was a graduate
student at MIT, Steve Zillis, about this
idea of data abstraction and it sketched
a notion of what abstract data types
would be and how a programming language
could support them. And this was very um
it was a very impactful paper. And so
there was a a big impact on the research
community and then
clue came along and that involved a lot
of additional research in the in the
programming language area. the next
thing that happened. So people were
watching this in the research community,
but of course people who are in
companies that want to write programs,
they need a programming language.
And I decided I wasn't going to try and
turn Clue into a product because that
would have required working in a
company. In those days, you didn't just
put software out on the internet and
people used it. There wasn't an internet
yet for one thing. and and I was much
more interested in doing research than
in you know working in a company. So I
put clue on the side. It had a user base
but I it but for companies to use a
programming language in those days they
wanted a company behind that language.
The next thing that happened was the
government uh put out a call for uh a
programming language they could use.
This led to the ADA programming language
that um so you know that was already a
big impact if you think about it that
there there was a language explicitly
being uh designed to have data
abstraction in it and then finally in
the '9s Java came along. I thought it'd
be interesting because you you worked on
Clue, you designed that programming
language. To ask you about other
programming languages, you said
somewhere that there's something wrong
with Python. And I was curious to hear
your thoughts of why
&gt;&gt; Python
has modules, but it doesn't have
encapsulation. So, it it allows code on
the outside to muck around with what's
going on on the inside of a module. And
that's all I was talking about.
Encapsulation is a is a crucial part of
making modularity work. And when you're
building big programs, so you have many
programmers working on them, your team
is really only as strong as your weakest
programmer.
So it's nice if the compiler can enforce
things and make certain kinds of bad
behavior not possible. I mean, Python
is, you know, has another intended use.
It's helping naive programmers learn
quickly how to write programs and stuff
like that. And people in the programming
language world do think about issues
like this like you know how to make um
languages safer and so forth. But since
I stopped working in that area I'm no
longer an expert in programming
languages.
&gt;&gt; What got you into distributed computing?
I read a paper by Bob Khan who was with
Vince surf considered to be you know the
founders of the internet and Bob talked
about
um his dream of distributed computing
where you would have a program composed
of pieces on different computers
connected by a network and nobody knew
how to build those programs and so I
just thought great problem
and I was looking for a new problem So I
jumped into distributed computing and
the first project was actually a
programming language to write
distributed programs in
and um and then I started looking at
other problems in the distributed
systems area.
&gt;&gt; What was that first programming
language? I don't
&gt;&gt; it was called Argus. It was it was very
strongly influenced by clue. It was an
object-oriented language had a special
kind of object called a guardian which
was a module sitting at a single
computer and then guardians could
compute could communicate through remote
procedure calls. One of the things you
run into in distributed computing
um is if you have a computation that
starts at one guardian and then makes
use of other guardians at other nodes in
the network. In the end, you want that
computation to either complete entirely
or have no effect at all. And how do you
do that? Well, I borrowed the notion of
transactions coming out of the database
field. And that was part of how Argus
worked. It ran computations as atomic
transactions.
&gt;&gt; Oh, interesting. Like distributed
transactions across those nodes.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think it led right into the
work I did on um viewstamp replication
which was um that was the beginning of
cloud storage. I was thinking in terms
of a file system but it doesn't really
matter what it is. You know how do you
have data out on the internet stored at
multiple sites with correct behavior and
always accessible as long as enough
nodes are up and running and the network
is working.
&gt;&gt; I see. And what is view stamp in this
context?
&gt;&gt; Oh, that had to do with some details of
how the system worked and it was a way
of noticing when some nodes failed and
other nodes had to take over. You could
figure out which ones had the most
recent state in them. So you could pick
up and not lose anything that had not h
that had happened in the past.
&gt;&gt; Uh what what if the clocks are out of
sync? Like
&gt;&gt; uh it had nothing to do with clocks
because it was just numbers. In other
words, we were in view 25. The next view
was 26. So,
&gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Just incrementing some number
that's passed around.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; This reminds me a lot of uh Leslie
Lamport's work.
&gt;&gt; Actually, yes.
&gt;&gt; Did you ever work with him or?
&gt;&gt; No. Leslie and I developed what is
essentially the same idea independently
and he had the system he called Paxos
and I had this thing called stamp
replication.
&gt;&gt; Oh, interesting. And they're essentially
the same thing.
&gt;&gt; They are. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Oh. Are there pros and cons of the two
approaches?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean that when you do this kind
of system, there's a lots of little
details you can play around with. So you
could, you know, decide to do it. It
gets technical, but you know, there's
tiny differences, but no, they're
basically the same. In fact, what
happened was uh the first time that I'm
aware of that this was actually used in
a real system was when the Google file
system came along and one of my former
students who was a I think he was a
consultant at Google looked at what was
going on in there and he said oh he says
that's fut replication. So the people at
Google seem to think it was Paxos but in
fact they are the same system. I also
noticed like um when you were uh when
you came up with abstract data types
maybe and maybe it's just because there
wasn't the internet wasn't as you know
&gt;&gt; wasn't there that there was also the
objectoriented stuff going on on the
west coast
&gt;&gt; yes Alan Kay was developing small talk
at the same time that I was working on
clue and then at Carnegie Melon uh Bill
Wolf and Mary Shaw were working on
Alfard which was another data
abstraction
language and you're right there was no
there was no internet although there was
the arpanet
you know so we did but it was like there
were two independent streams of research
going on and we weren't talking to each
other and so I wasn't paying much
attention to small talk and on the west
coast I don't think they were paying
much attention to data abstraction
and this led to the liskoff substitution
principle which I mean the story is a
sort of acute one because in 1986 I
think it was I was asked to give a
keynote at oopsla oops is the
object-oriented programming conference
and this was the second year it was
happening and so I decided I think I'll
read all those papers about small talk
and there were other languages being
developed that were based on small talk
and see what's going on with them and I
discovered
um so small talk has this idea of
inheritance in it where you can have a
class and a subclass which borrows from
the way the class is implemented and
changes it a bit and clue doesn't have
that. Clue just has what we call
clusters and they're all independent.
So I saw that they were talking about
this notion of classes and subclasses
and and then I saw that they were also
talking about something they called type
hierarchy
where they wanted the type implemented
by a class to be related in some way
that they didn't understand to the type
that was implemented by a subclass. I
really thought about modules in terms of
their specifications.
This partly had to do with a class I
developed at MIT that I developed
jointly with my colleague John Gutag.
And in that class, we taught the
students how to do design about
modularity, data types, and so forth,
but also how to write specifications,
how to reason about correctness. And so
it had a big focus on think about the
meaning of things first. And the
implementation is something that's kind
of hidden inside. You don't worry about
it very much. And so
that was a different way of thinking
about things than what was going on in
the on the west coast where they were
really thinking in terms of classes and
subclasses. And I even saw papers where
they would describe the behavior of a
class by explaining how its
implementation was different from the
implementation of the superclass. So
they were kind of focused on
implementations in a way that we
weren't. And so
when I read these papers about type
hierarchy and I saw they just couldn't
figure out what it was supposed to mean,
I was thinking about it from the terms
of meaning. And so I was able to say it
has to do with the behavior. And this
subclass better behave like the
superclass if you use it in an
environment where the superclass is
expected.
And that became what ended up being
called the Liskoff substitution
principle. And ultimately Janette Wing
and I wrote a paper on behavioral
subtyping which is the formal
definition.
&gt;&gt; And then how did it get that name?
Because you didn't go up on stage and
say, "Hey everyone, here's the list."
No, no, but no. As as as I said, one day
in the in the 90s after the internet had
arrived, I got an email saying, "Can you
say if this is the correct
interpretation of the Liskoff
substitution principle?" That's when I
discovered that there was such a name
and and I I don't think I had really
been aware of how important it was until
that point because I wasn't thinking
about this stuff. if I was working on
other stuff
&gt;&gt; in the academic community. It seems very
reasonable to have multiple people have
similar ideas, but it seems like some
ideas stick more than others. For
instance, like the um the view stamp
replication versus Paxos,
&gt;&gt; they're the same thing. I'm wondering
like in that case, for instance, why
would Paxos be more known than Vstamp
replication?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So what Lesie says is
I went around giving all the talks and
she implemented it.
&gt;&gt; Really
&gt;&gt; something up to that.
&gt;&gt; Then he got notoriety for speaking about
it. Yeah, he he he did give lots of
talks about it and wrote several papers
and so forth and I didn't realize it was
the same system, but finally it became
clear that they were the same system.
&gt;&gt; I also wonder how much the name matters
because Paxos is kind of catchy.
&gt;&gt; It is a cute name.
&gt;&gt; It's a cute name. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Right.
&gt;&gt; So I I could see maybe it has better
marketing around the idea, I guess. I
also think that this approach to solving
this problem which both Leslie and I
picked up independently in my case came
from the work I'd been doing with
transactions because in transactions
there's a leader that you know says now
we're going to commit and ask everybody
can we commit and if they all say okay
you know it's but unlike in transactions
of in transactions if the leader fails
there's what's called you know this this
can be a real problem here. We had to
have a way of moving to a new leader if
the old leader failed. And that's the
big step forward that happened in both
view stamp replication and paxos. Now
there was also Byzantine fall tolerance
which came along later that was
developed. So viewstamp replication I
developed with my student Brian Oki. It
was his PhD thesis and then Paxos I
developed with my student Miguel Castro.
was his PhD student thesis and Miguel
got interested in this problem because
uh there was a DARPA request for
proposals and there was one about this
problem on the internet. By then there
were Byzantine attacks and you know
malicious attacks and nodes that were
purport to be working correctly but
actually they had been compromised and
so forth. And so view stamp
amplification in Paxos only handled
crashes and um if there were messages
that were had been played with you could
tell when they arrived that they were
bad and that was about the extent of
what we dealt with. But these malicious
attacks with nodes that purported to be
working when they weren't, that was a
big step forward. And Miguel saw this
request for proposals and he said to me,
"Why don't we see whether we can come up
with a protocol that works in the
presence of Byzantine attacks?" And and
I think, by the way, Lesie is the one
that invented the word Byzantine to I
think
&gt;&gt; he did.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Right. I saw in the in the
software crisis stuff there's the paper
with Dystra that you had mentioned was
one of the papers you you wrote that
said we need modularity and that paper
was the go-to statements considered
harmful
&gt;&gt; right
&gt;&gt; and I'm curious because Dystra I mean
when I was studying computer science you
we all know his name did you ever meet
him or work
&gt;&gt; oh yeah many time I didn't never worked
with him but I did meet him multiple
times and uh you know He had very
interesting ideas and that paper uh go
to statement considered harmful it's not
actually a paper it was a letter to the
editor of the communications of the ACM
but it was very impactful and what was
really important about that paper was
that Dyra was talking about
how difficult it is to reason about the
correctness of code and this was at a
time when in the sciences
computer science was kind of dismissed
as nothing much and anybody can write
code and you know Dyster was trying to
make a point which I think was actually
important that it's not as trivial as
you think it is it's not trivial at all
um and he was also pointing out that
gotos can be misused
&gt;&gt; and it was controversial at the time but
&gt;&gt; it was yeah
&gt;&gt; but today I I I I don't I mean I've
written code for over a decade.
&gt;&gt; People don't use goto.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I I haven't even seen a go-to in
the code.
&gt;&gt; So what why was it controversial at the
time?
&gt;&gt; The programming languages were different
then. Um first of all there were people
writing programs in assembler. In
assembler you have to use gotos.
Programming languages didn't have some
of the constructs in them that we think
of today. And uh so some people were
using go-tos because they had to. And
also
um compilers didn't do all the kinds of
optimizations that they do today. So
there was a concern if you didn't have
gotos maybe your program wouldn't be
efficient enough. And then there were
people who used go-tos and wrote really
good code. And they were offended that
Dyster was saying your code is bad. So
there was a whole butt and and Daer was
not the most um diplomatic person. So
you know so he he didn't write it in the
in a nice not you can imagine writing
that paper more nicely where you said um
so that that but there were many reasons
why it was controversial. You know
people were offended but then there were
also concerns about
programming languages don't have these
features I need. What am I supposed to
do? And then there were concerns about
what the compiler was doing. And so the
world is very different now. But clearly
Dyra won the day.
&gt;&gt; Okay.
&gt;&gt; Because no gotos.
&gt;&gt; And is Dystra in person also like his
writing.
&gt;&gt; Uh he was not always as tactful as he
might be.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. But you know he was a very uh
distinguished researcher. Computer
science has had such a huge impact on
the industry. Why did you choose to stay
in academia instead of going into
industry?
&gt;&gt; So
I like doing research
and I enjoy working with students
and
I teaching was never my favorite thing
but I always felt teaching and research
were very closely connected.
Um but also it was a different time. So
this business about how professors are
all forming companies and so forth which
goes on today that wasn't happening 20
years ago or maybe it was happening 20
years ago but 30 years ago it wasn't.
And so when I was young it wasn't the
thing that you did. It was sort of a
eitheror sort of thing. So I wasn't even
thinking about doing stuff like that. I
did work in a startup briefly at the end
of the 90s. I didn't like it.
I much prefer doing research. And as a
professor, you have this it's it's a
gift and a curse. The gift is you can do
whatever you want. The curse is you have
to figure out what it is that you're
doing. But I like that freedom and the
fact that I just could go off in any I
mean my career is full of these
interesting zigzags where I would switch
to something else. I had the freedom to
do that.
&gt;&gt; What stops you from going off in a very
useless direction?
&gt;&gt; Uh you won't get tenure.
&gt;&gt; Who's the judge?
&gt;&gt; The community.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It's not, you know, what what the
way that you're viewed at your
university has mostly to do with um one
very important facet of it is how are
you viewed in your research community.
So because that's one of the important
things they want from their faculty if
you're in a research university. You
mentioned earlier that uh research and
teaching were heavily related in your
opinion. Why is that?
&gt;&gt; Because when you teach, you have to
teach from first principles.
And if you're doing good research, you
need to understand deeply what's
working, what's not working, what
assumptions you're making. It's it's
really the same thought process.
It's it sounds like in research I mean
and this is true in every walk of life
there's the I guess the direction that
you take and then the work that you do
towards that direction and it sounds
like for research the the direction is
maybe the most important thing cuz you
could have a phenomenal researcher
doing an idea that has no you know even
if you did it at 100% it's not going to
lead to That's right. So you you know I
you tell students, graduate students,
don't do incremental work. Don't you
know you've got you you can't just keep
working on the same thing over and over
just making little teeny improvements.
You need to find You're right. You have
to find a good problem, but you also
have to find a problem that's amenable
to a solution and one that matches your
skill set.
And um you have to recognize when you're
going in a good direction versus not
going in a good direction.
&gt;&gt; Looking back on your career, you say
that it was luck and that it seems like
things just fit together.
&gt;&gt; I feel there was luck involved.
There was a lot of hard work involved.
there was
um not allowing
uh something negative to you know cause
you great difficulty.
So for example when I finished my PhD I
would have liked a faculty position
but I didn't have any good offers.
So I went back to MITER the company I
had worked for initially as a
researcher.
Um, in other words, I just kept on
marching along and it turned out to be a
very good choice because I was switching
from AI to systems and this gave me I
worked there for four years. Gave me
four years to make that transition
without having to uh worry about
students and teaching and all the other
stuff, you know. So, it worked out well,
but it also meant that I didn't, you
know, feel really sorry for myself that
I didn't get a job. it and I just kept
on going and then title N was about to
be passed and finally academia was
opening up to women and I was ready
but I think you know when I talk to
other people about their careers they
talk about doors opening and doors
closing so um I didn't get the academic
job I wanted but I had this other
opportunity I majored in math and
fortunately I was offered a programming
job. I mean, doors open and then you
have to decide, am I going to step
through? And this is a pattern that
people see in their careers. It's not
just me. Many people have have those
kinds of choices that you make along the
way, opportunities and things that
aren't so great, you know, and you're
sort of working your way through.
I've interviewed a few people who have
won touring awards and I've done
research and watched a lot of these
speeches that people give after they
received the award. And I noticed
something different in in your speech or
some of the stuff that I read about uh
your work, which is that in yours, it
seems like when you got the Turing
Award, there were people saying, "Why
did she get the Turing Award?" It was
kind of negative commentary on that
&gt;&gt; and I didn't see that in the other
cases. Why do you think that they said
that about your work?
&gt;&gt; So I'm I'm not so sure this doesn't
happen to other people by the way. It
was just that my husband was out on the
internet. By the way, there was an
internet by then.
&gt;&gt; Okay.
&gt;&gt; Okay. As you know, the internet is not
necessarily nice.
&gt;&gt; I know that,
&gt;&gt; right?
And um so I I can imagine that other
people might have had the similar a
similar experience had they bothered to
look. Um but I also think that
the world had changed so much and the
work that I had done was so basic to
what was going on that people really
didn't understand that there was a
before. I mean, my graduate students
really didn't understand that there was
a before because I discovered that at
the time I got the award. It really
hadn't struck them that data abstraction
didn't always exist.
So I think that I mean I viewed it as a
in a way a huge compliment not really
just to me but to the group of
researchers who you know all together
got us to the point where we had u these
modular programming languages and we
understood about abstract data types and
we understood about how to reason about
correctness. All that stuff was so
fundamental that people thought there
was no time when it hadn't already
existed.
&gt;&gt; So they took it for granted.
&gt;&gt; They took it for granted. I mean the
Byzantine fall tolerance, you look at
that there's a protocol and
you can understand that there was a
protocol. Somebody invented that
protocol. Um you know so you get the
credit for that. This was much more
fundamental. This was the whole mindset
you had about how to de develop programs
and that's what people were talking
about and things had changed so much
that all these inventions of mine and
others were just there in the woodwork
and people didn't realize that there was
a time before.
&gt;&gt; That's validating then that it's it's so
impactful and
&gt;&gt; everyone uses it all the time that they
don't even know what it was like before
what you did. So, I thought, you know,
it's a huge the person who said it
didn't mean it nicely, but I thought
really it's a huge a huge compliment and
and a statement about where we are now
as opposed to where we were then. So,
&gt;&gt; okay. Well, that's all the questions I
have for you. Thank you so much for for
your time. Really appreciate it.
&gt;&gt; You're welcome.
&gt;&gt; Thank you for listening to the podcast.
It's a passion project of mine that I've
really enjoyed building. Another passion
project that I've been working on kind
of in secret is building an ergonomic
keyboard that I wish existed and I
finally have a prototype. So, I'd love
to show you what we've built. It's ultra
lowprofile and ergonomic and I couldn't
find anything like it on the market. So,
that's why we built it. I'll put a link
to the keyboard in the description. You
can take a look and learn more about the
project there. We could definitely use
your support. Also, if you have any
feedback for me about the show, I'd love
to hear it. Comments on YouTube have led
to guests coming on like Ilia Gregoric
and David Fowler. I wasn't aware of them
until someone dropped a comment. Also,
feedback in the comments helped me learn
to reduce the number of cliffhers in the
intros. So, your comments definitely
make a difference. Please keep letting
me know what you'd like to see more of
in the show, and I'll see you in the
next episode.
