原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4YNHb0XNV1A

So we are here at Code with Claude. I'm
here with Kieran uh GM of Kora and uh
father of compound engineering and uh
we've been here all day. Anthropic's big
developer conference. Um it's it's
always a good time. We have uh we've got
a lot of updates for you from the
conference. Everything that we saw,
everything that we heard, um everything
that we didn't hear. We even did a
little bit of a food review. So we'll
get get you some of get you some of the
spicy the spicy takes that you're
looking for. Um the big news from today
is that Anthropic did a deal with XAI uh
and SpaceX to uh basically take the
entire like all of the uh all of the
compute in in SpaceX's Colossus cluster
which uh is really interesting because
uh the the operative word is is all of
the compute. It's called the Colossus
Cluster for a reason. And it's been one
of those things where I think if you're
if you've been an anthropic fan for the
last year, as we have, um you started to
feel that as people caught on with the
sort of like claude code movement,
they've been really compute constrained
and they've done a lot of stuff where
it's like they um you know, they they
banned you from using your cloud
subscription with Open Claw. Just stuff
that like kind of made it like wrinkled
people a little bit. And this seems like
a move that will allow them to meet the
demand that they're seeing and and open
things up in a new way, which I'm really
excited about.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, everyone gets 2x their usage
limits and there's no like the windows
are a little bit more loose, which is
great because
&gt;&gt; the worst thing is starting your cloud
session and then like you're you're
almost there or you're over your limit.
So, this is very very cool. It might
sound boring, but like if you actually
use the tools, this is great. Yeah, this
is the best.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, when I step back and think about
okay, what did they actually launch uh
today? They the biggest thing that they
launched is uh a new cloud manage a set
of new features for cloud manage agents
which is their like cloud agent uh
platform. So they launched uh they
launched memory for cloud manage agents.
They launched agent orchestration and
outcome. So like you basically can give
the agent an outcome and it goes and
accomplishes that and comes back only
when it's done. And to be honest, I was
I was sort of I think if I step back,
I'm thinking like there's not anything
where it's like, "Holy they
launched Mythos or whatever."
&gt;&gt; We were hoping for we were waiting. We
were waiting for Mythos. Yeah. But I But
you you made like a really interesting
point, which is sometimes there are
sneaky things where it maybe doesn't
seem like a big deal at the time, but
there it is actually a big deal. And and
I think if I had to put my finger on one
of those things,
the battle lines between OpenAI and
Anthropic and and all these other model
companies are are becoming a little bit
more clear where there's there's a very
clear uh moment happening where if
you're doing work on your computer,
you're going to do it in one of
&gt;&gt; cloud code or co-work. And like that's
your that's your work operating system
for you and and a model to be working
together. And then there's this other
parallel battlefront starting to happen
uh for where and how you provision and
build uh agents that are meant to be
longunning and async and probably used
by a team. Something like open clause
but uh for actually work.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. But but actually work. This that's
the spicy takes that we have here in
here for um and so cloud manage agents
is that. So if you want to if you want
to build an agent that um that exists in
the cloud that serves lots of requests
that's really scalable that's their
solution. I think you know for us we've
been
&gt;&gt; we've been thinking about how do we do
this and and it feels like we're um
uh it feels like you you have to
reinvent the wheel a lot and so manage
agents is sort of doing that and I think
&gt;&gt; OpenAI does not have that yet. They have
a they have the agents SDK but they
don't have a cloud version. I assume
that that's coming. So, and I think that
the the battlefronts are starting to
form and and so it manage agents is
actually probably a bigger deal than you
might think.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Like whenever cloth code came out,
it was cool and we didn't think much.
&gt;&gt; We we thought we were like, "Holy shit."
&gt;&gt; We were like, "Holy
&gt;&gt; we were the only people."
&gt;&gt; Yes, there were some people that were
thinking that. And I feel with this,
&gt;&gt; it could be very big. And it's also when
something new is introduced I'm asking
myself why do I use this or what does it
solve or when do I use it and like using
this you'll figure out we'll figure out
and we'll see where it's powerful but we
know like this is painful like
infrastructure is very hard to do and
all these primitives is if it just works
it's very very good and also I think
anthropic is the best at agent
orchestration
&gt;&gt; uh so having them solve this is great
and bringing in everything like the the
agent team work or like the like all of
that stuff the multi- aent thinking
inside a harness is very interesting and
I think
&gt;&gt; it's also like standing still and say
okay we have all these things uh we have
it work pretty well we have these
abstractions of outcomes um and they
present it to the world and they're like
okay now everyone like come together,
figure out what you need to take from
it, how you build your things with this.
So, and like they cannot release it
without people using it and giving
feedback. So, this is the first step
which is it's out there. People can
start using it and now we'll figure out
&gt;&gt; what we'll do with it. I I feel it's
it's a beginning of something
potentially very exciting. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Do you have something exciting that you
want to do with it?
&gt;&gt; Um, yeah. So, I'm I'm just asking myself
the question like why wouldn't I run
this on my Mac Mini? Um, and
&gt;&gt; and by this you mean like a managed
agent?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, managed agents. But what I what I
do think is if you have an agent that
just runs and is reliable like it can be
so valuable and like a Mac Mini going
down like it's not something you can
actually have happen in a bigger
company. So I I think just the
reliability even though it sounds very
boring
&gt;&gt; scalability
&gt;&gt; scalability just it working is insane
like if the models do the work always
and if the infrastructure always works
you just have something that's reliable
and the most valuable thing is really
something that's reliable because
getting 90% there is easy but like
&gt;&gt; having it do it all the time and I
&gt;&gt; very strongly feel this team is very
good at that so I I just would use it
immediately just become uh yeah because
it's coming from here.
&gt;&gt; You said that they're the best at agent
orchestration. What do you mean by that?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I think it's uh first of all
they they think the furthest along with
this. So they have this idea of dispatch
in a cowork and cloth code which is like
that's like a thing you talk to an agent
and that agent orchestrates other
things. So you can say, "Hey, start five
cloth coats." And it's it's a paradigm I
think is for sure this year going to get
really big where you talk with one agent
that will then spin up all the other
agents for you and you have agent teams
as well in cloth and
&gt;&gt; they start to talk to each other. You
have multi- um agents in in there as
well. And I I think they're the only
company that actually see this and do it
and like also not do it because there
are swarms that you can do that
sometimes like waste a lot of uh tokens
for certain task. But like they have the
people here that think about it like
Daisy for example presented today uh and
she created that system and she's here
at Anthropic. So like the people that
like think the furthest are also here.
So, I just trust them. I know others
will do this, too. Uh, but like I I I
know they're ahead. So, I I I feel
that's a good indication. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, I know that we're uh people are here
waiting for the the most important part
of this uh this live uh on the ground
vibe check, which is the food review.
&gt;&gt; Yes. Um they there was there was we both
had the teriyak glazed salmon bowl
&gt;&gt; without there seemed to be no teriyak.
Um so there definitely there definitely
points for it felt healthy to me like it
felt like yeah we went healthy.
&gt;&gt; The kind of thing that like you know it
had like it had whole grains and and
salad and whatever. And so I think um
&gt;&gt; points
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So points points for that but the
teriyak was missing. Um, so I, you know,
I I think uh if if I had to rank in
terms of developer conferences, I would
put this above build. Um, at Build I
think I had like a, you know, one of
those turkey sandwiches with the Saran
with the the Saran wrap on it. Um, but
it's it's still kind of like middle of
the pack uh for for developer
conferences. Um, but we're we'll uh
we'll be
&gt;&gt; we'll be back. We we will we will be as
always uh here on the ground at uh at
all of these kinds of events giving you
the the the updates that you need. Um so
so if if if if I just summarize the most
important things from today compute deal
that's a huge deal very that that puts
them right back in the race with OpenAI.
uh cloud manage agents sneak sneaky
important um some new features there but
just generally that idea is is sneaky
important and it seems like something
that we're going to be talking a lot
about over the next couple months and
years.
