原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g5TWnUjbeFM

Today Pars, we're joined by Alex Topman,
the co-founder and CEO of Long Lake
Management. Long Lake recently announced
their intent to acquire American Express
Global Business Travel for $6.3 billion
in what I believe is the world's first
AI take private. They have previously
bought around 30 companies and they
transform and optimize them with AI. So,
we're very excited to have him on board
today. Alex, thanks so much for joining
us at Enterprise.
&gt;&gt; Pleasure to be here. Thank you for
having me, Lad.
&gt;&gt; Um, you just announced what I believe,
and I I could be wrong on this, but I
think it may be um the world's first
ever AI take private where you've agreed
to acquire Ammex Express Global Business
Travel, the world's largest corporate
travel platform for 6.3 billion, which
is pretty amazing. And before that,
you've already done 30 acquisitions
under this premise that you can buy
businesses and transform them with AI,
what some people are referring to as
AIdriven roll-ups or AIdriven um uh
buyouts. And so I it's very exciting to
have you here and learn more about your
business. You mentioned you have this
Nexus platform which helps your
employees serve their customers better
and automates a lot of their work. Can
you give examples of some of the things
that that automates or how it helps them
in the context of HOA and I know you're
now in four other verticals or three
other verticals and so what you do kind
of crosses across the different
businesses you're involved with.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's right. So we've taken an
approach since the beginning of
investing very heavily in our horizontal
AI platform which call Nexus. Um I'd say
roughly 80% of the infrastructure is
shared across the verticals and then
there's a lot of work to take it and
deploy it into those end markets and the
deployment involves mapping workflows
understanding data sources cleaning up
data sources integrating with them to
make them easier for the models to
access and sort of our next platform
sits in between the models on one side
we're model agnostic and the data
sources the skills the workflows of the
business and so that takes a lot of
customization and significant applied AI
engineering capabilities which we've
built built at Long Lake. So once we can
take that platform, we buy a company now
or partner with a company now very
quickly. You know, in the beginning it
took us over a year with our first
acquisitions to actually, you know, find
the the real potential of AI uh and see
it in the in the business outcomes. But
now within days of partnering with a
company, we can deploy this very quickly
and see immediate impact. So you can buy
a company and then within a couple weeks
you have instant margin lift because the
employees of that new acquisition just
go on a platform you've already built
for similar businesses.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. What we what we see is instant
time savings. And then the question is
how do we grow to give our team members
so we actually invest very heavily in
growth. We're actually not really you
know we're not focused on cost saving.
We're actually focused on driving growth
and customer experience. That's our
that's our big and what we've seen it's
a much more powerful model because it's
our view of AI is it's incredibly
positive sum. I know this is a little
bit of a narrative violation but we
actually think AI makes people more
productive and we have more productive
people. You want more of them and when
your customers are happier you grow
faster. You actually create jobs and
everybody wins. And so we're seeing this
in our companies. We're fastest growing
company in the HOA industry now. We are
growing organically. We when we invested
in the businesses, they're typically
growing 0 to 5% a year in terms of
volume. We're now growing 20 plus% a
year. And that's because we've made our
team members, we've given them extra
capacity to go and serve more customers.
We actually have better uh more
attractive customer acquisition
economics. Um because we can serve those
customers at incrementally lower costs
with better products and services. So,
we've been able to take sort of the the
software style playbook of go to market
and apply it into these sleepy
industries and and I think it's a
win-winwin.
&gt;&gt; It must be hard for your employees to go
and work anywhere else in the industry
then because if they're dramatically
more productive, they're doing less busy
work. Have you found that you've
decreased employee churn or have other
things?
&gt;&gt; That's right. We've seen very very high
retention of our team members across all
of our acquisitions. Um, and actually
this is the vision. This is the vision
long lake. We want to basically be the
best place to work in every industry
that we operate so we can get give the
best people the best tools with the best
customers and that flywheel becomes
self-perpetuating because if you now
leave Long Lake or you leave our one of
our partner companies to go to a
competitor you have to start doing all
this mundane work again that you 25% of
your day 30% of your day you have to go
do that again and the thought of it's
like it's like giving up email or
something you know you're not going to
it's just so actually we've started to
become a real talent magnet in these
industries, in our companies. And by the
way, we can pay people the most because
they're the most productive. They're
actually making more money. And we're
we're delighted about that. So, we can
pay you the most, give you the best
tools, and we're growing the fastest.
Um, you know, that's part of our vision
is it's just it's it's really making
things better for team members and
customers. And by the way, the other
important thing is you give your team
members superpowers with AI, the
customers are much much happier. So,
we're seeing customer retention going
up. We're seeing response times much
faster,
&gt;&gt; errors going down in sort of things like
board reporting, budgeting, email, you
know, and uh that's driving up customer
retention.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Oh, so cool. Why why do this v
acquisition versus just offering
software to people? In other words, the
traditional Silicon Valley playbook
would be, you know, you find the HOA
industry, you realize that there's a
need in terms of software, you build
software for the industry, and then you
sell it as a vendor and in this case,
sell it as a sort of AI product or tool.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. um why not do that or why did you
decide to go down the acquisition path?
&gt;&gt; We we think that you can drive better
win-win business outcomes with deeper
alignment. And so by actually owning the
companies and and owning those customer
relationships directly, we can drive
better better results. Software
companies are wonderful. We partner with
many of them. But when you're just
selling software and you don't actually
then care what happens with the with the
business outcomes, you just don't see
the same business. Your engineers are
just viewing your employees as their
customers in some sense then. Is that
correct?
&gt;&gt; That's right. Our our team views our
employees and our team members in the
field as the customer and that feedback
loop internally. That's the other point
is we have a much tighter feedback loop.
So you know the old skunk works thing of
you want the engineers and the factory
to be colllocated so you can have more
innovation. That's what we have at Long
Lake. So our team members and our
engineers are together in the field all
the time. I think there's of our
engineering team they're probably in 20
different states right now sitting with
team members across our architecture
business across our HOA business across
our HR services or you know specialty
tax business and so they're sort of um
and there's a deep amount of change
management that's involved so this is a
lot of you know sitting with the team
members understanding their pain points
and so there's a real like solutions
orientation of how do we take the pain
point we and then we build a tool within
Nexus to solve it and that feedback loop
is really important. So you get to
better outcomes this way.
&gt;&gt; No, it's pretty amazing because I think
one of the biggest issues for actually
adoption of AI is uh change management
uh changing processes, changing
organizational design. And I guess if
you own the actual company, then you can
make those changes. If you're just
selling software, you can't really
impact it very much.
&gt;&gt; I think in general, um in order to do
this very well, and I've talked to
dozens of people trying to do different
forms of AI rollups and, uh things like
that, um is you really need three
competencies. It seems like it seems
like you need some folks who are great
at the the private equity style motion
of purchasing things. You need somebody
who's great at engineering and building
out the uh AI uh stack and then you need
really good change management. How how
were you able to pull those three
disciplines together? Because it's very
rare and again I've seen very very few
very very few companies in this area
who've done this. Was it a magic initial
founding team? Was it just how you've
hired? I'm just sort of curious how you
because you've also gotten exceptional
engineers which most you know uh folks
aren't able to get in this industry.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, thank you for saying that.
Yeah. So, because we were purpose-built
from day one to kind of be this uh cross
functional company with technology, DNA,
change management and M&amp;A, we were able
to attract, you know, the right type of
people from network. And so, I think
100% of our first 20 people were through
network. We knew them really well. and
people from, you know, places like
Palunteer, RAMP, Robin Hood, you know,
um some of the top Glean, some of the
top um sort of modern AI and data uh
companies. And so, you know, Rasmus, our
our co-founder and CTO, uh he and I were
connected through one of our, you know,
early investors and board members who've
we've all known each other for kind of
15 plus years. um we all started our
careers together and it's really rare by
the way I think for many business people
to have those deep technical networks
like what I've observed is that often
these are separate worlds and
technologists are very bad at hiring
business people early on at least in
their careers and vice versa business
people tend to be awful at hiring
engineers and so you end up with these
mismatches on the early teams so it's
pretty amazing you were able to pull
people out of some of these great
companies yeah well thank you I mean I
think it's a re what it's a really
exciting project I think that's you know
the idea of bringing AI into the real
world there's a lot I mean What the labs
are doing is extraordinary obviously and
they're enabling all of this and all the
you know hundreds of billions of
investment that's going in models are
getting part of our thesis was the
models are going to get better every
day. There's going to be a tremendous
amount in the trillions of investment
&gt;&gt; but who's going to take all that and
actually make it work in the real
economy. There felt like a huge huge gap
and so a lot of the folks that came
together for our founding team actually
were founders before in technology. Many
of them had their own startups on the
engineering team. They they they were
either the co-founder CEO or CTO of an
applied AI company. But what people
realized is it's actually for the
reasons we talked about earlier, it's
actually really hard to sell software
into these services industries. It's
much better to it's like if you can't
beat them, join them. And so what we
we're building sort of a team of
founders.
&gt;&gt; Um, and we want Long Lake to be a place
where entrepreneurial applied AI
engineers can come and do some of their
best work.
&gt;&gt; And then you also have pulled, I think,
some people out of great private equity
firms.
&gt;&gt; Um, what are some of the places that
those folks have come from? Yeah, our
private equity team comes from, you
know, uh, our M&amp;A team comes from top
private equity firms like so Manny, one
of our co-founders and M&amp;A lead came
from GTCR. He actually worked on the
most profitable deal in their history
the month before he left to come to Long
Lake. Um, he might get embarrassed for
me saying this, but I think he was named
employee of the month at GTCR the month
he he resigned. Um, but you know, GTCR
one of the top performing large cap bio
funds. We have folks from Blackstone,
TPG, HIG, and mostly the reason they
come to Long Lake is because, you know,
even though these firms are
extraordinary firms at what they do,
they're not AI native. And so I think
for those subsegment of those M&amp;A
professionals that really believe in our
thesis, there's there's not many places
that look like Long Lake today. And so
we can provide a unique environment for
them to deploy AI into all these
companies. And I think this led to this
really unique opportunity which is uh
taking private a 110-year-old business
which is um American Express global
business travel. And again I mean I
haven't seen anything of this magnitude
happen in the AI world up until now
which is pretty impressive. I think it's
a $6.3 billion potential um uh take
private.
&gt;&gt; How did you all come up with the idea to
do this? And I know there's only limited
things you can say since this is a
public company and it's going through
this transition but
&gt;&gt; you know whatever you can share in terms
of the thinking behind it.
&gt;&gt; Well, we've admired this company for you
know as long as I you know I think I've
been a customer many of us you know
involved in our some of our investors
you know that have traveled a lot in
their careers have used this company as
a customer.
&gt;&gt; And by the way this company I think got
started when the only thing you could
book on it was like railways and boats
and you know again it's been around for
a while. I think this predates air
travel as a company.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, this is a this is a 111-year-old
company. It was started in 1915 by
American Express as a way for them to
get their Travelers check customers out
of Europe during World War I. Um, and
actually some parts uh Carlson Wagon
Lead, which they acquired late last
year, was founded, I think in 1876.
&gt;&gt; Wow.
&gt;&gt; Wagon Le stands for uh sleeping cars in
the train. It's French. So I mean these
are these these are businesses have
navigated a century plus worth of
technology transformation and so and we
think they're going to be it's going to
be an extraordinary franchise for for
another century to come. Um but the the
way we came up with the thesis is we'd
actually been you know we have a
prepared mind approach at Long Lake.
There's we have a whiteboard of call it
15 20 industries that we think are very
high value for us to focus on and travel
was always one of them and the reasons
are you know it's a missionritical
service. It's high cost of failure. Um
most trips are revenue generating and
you know if you miss you know like a
podcast with your favorite you know
podcaster for example.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Tragedy tragic
&gt;&gt; right. Uh so you know this is a the
customer trust that this franchise has
built over a hundred years is really
extraordinary and I think and the
company actually and in publicly
reported has done a really great job
charting its future with AI
transformation. and we just think we can
double down on that and drive a lot of
customer excellence.
&gt;&gt; Is there anything I know again you can't
say much because of you know it's a
transaction in progress for like a a
public company uh but is there anything
you tell us about how you're thinking
about where you want to take this?
&gt;&gt; Yeah and and I've said this you know
publicly in the press release is that
our vision is to really double down on
the company's existing AI transformation
strategy. Um and we see it as you know
any industry that we operate in we see
our Nexus platform as giving our team
members superpowers deliver better
customer outcomes faster response times
faster you know um disruption uh
resolution and
&gt;&gt; imagine basically your travel counselor
with AI superpowers. That's kind of the
future we envision for MXGBT's
customers. So, I know that there's a few
different versions of people who will
buy companies to operate them or improve
them. The traditional private equity
playbook tends to be very short-term,
right? They'll buy a business for a
couple years. They'll put they'll load
it up with debt in many cases. They may
cut costs aggressively or teams
aggressively
&gt;&gt; and then flip the business. And I think
you've taken an approach which I would
view more as in the Birkshar Hathaway
mold, which is you want to buy
businesses you can own and hold for a
very long time.
&gt;&gt; Uh, and you kind of want to invest in
these businesses over time. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Uh where do you want to be in 10 years
or 20 years or how do you think about
you know where this this all goes?
&gt;&gt; Well, look, I think it's a really big
market opportunity. This is 20 plus
trillion TAM like I said before and uh I
think we'd like to be the market leader
in every segment that we're operating in
and I think there's a lot of segments to
potentially you know add value to. So
part of what inspired us always about
you know the Danahars of the world is
they were able to compound they
developed a differentiated operating
model in their case started
manufacturing and then life sciences but
they were always able to drive better
growth better customer satisfaction
better employee retention and ultimately
better productivity and that allowed
them to um you know continually
consolidate all these industries over a
long period of time with a lot of uh
outperformance and so our vision is to
sort of follow in the footsteps of some
of those great companies within the ser
and do it within the services sector and
with our sort of AI platform as our
advantage. Um and and I do think that
there's something about the long-term
nature of what we're doing. You know,
it's really hard. What we're doing is
actually really hard.
&gt;&gt; And doing it, you can't do this in a
year. You can't do this even in two
years, three years. This is a multi-year
transformation. These are uh these these
are sort of compounding effects where as
you as we talked about earlier as you
sort of give your people better tools
you get better people and then you can
pay them more and then they can deliver
better customer outcomes and then you
can grow faster. That's not a one month
two-month cycle. That's a 2, three,
four, 5 year transformation cycle and
then what are you going to do? You're
going to do all that. You're going to
build the best company in the industry
and then you're going to sell it. That
just doesn't make sense to me. I I'd
want to own that company forever and
compound on that advantage for decades
to come. uh and then extrapolated into
ancillary areas and other service lines.
And so our vision really is to be a
long-term owner partner to world-class
services companies. And and by the way,
if I was a a founder owned business who
had built a great business over 50
years, you know, I'd love to know that
the next steward of that company is
going to be a long-term investor and a
long-term steward of of of of the
employees and the customers. And so
that's part of our vision as well. We
we've designed Long Lake. Part of it is,
you know, I grew up in a family of
entrepreneurs and we had a family
business that my grandfather started, my
dad and uncle ran for for for
75-year-old company that we recently
exited actually. Um, and uh when we
designed Long Lake, I designed it with
that mindset of sort of build the
product you yourself would want to use,
which is I would love to be, you know,
if I was a seller of an asset,
partnering with Long Lake. And that
that's our ambition. So, one other thing
that I've noticed is that often it seems
like you you win a lot of the uh
companies that you are bidding on in a
competitive process or in some cases
you're the only person people want to
sell to. Could you explain why that is
or what how that's shifted over the last
2 three years?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, thank you. Um we have had a really
good success our message has really
resonated with uh with business owners
and management teams I think because I
think it is solving a really important
need which is having a long-term
permanent capital partner is already a
wonderful thing but having that partner
with deep applied AI engineering
expertise and a platform that you can
deploy day one
&gt;&gt; because these folks never see anything
like that right in terms of the
industries that they're currently in.
the we have to you know AI is very very
underpenetrated it's probably around 1%
penetrated in terms of real enterprise
AI use cases and when you think about
sort of the you know the overall economy
first of all 99% of businesses in
America are are small businesses and
they don't have access to the resources
of big companies but even big companies
you know are having a hard time figuring
out you know how to drive maximum impact
from AI so we are sort of a we're
solving many needs and you know in terms
of the you the philosophy I mentioned
before of um we've kind of tried to
design you know the product you want to
use as if we were a seller or if we were
a management team to be the optimal
partner and that's that's how we've
designed Long Lake and so we have this
cross functional team they become your
partners day one I mean you get to
partner with Veroon or you get Verun
Teras Pritique and you know Jason and
our extraordinary engineering team will
basically live in your office for the
next two years helping you fix all your
problems it's a pretty good value prop
and so and then we also encourage
rollover and equity alignment from
existing shareholders or management and
founders. Um, and so in our first four
verticals, service lines that we've gone
into, we have significant rollover
participation from the original
founders.
&gt;&gt; Leader of the business gets a piece of
the new business in some sense so that
they benefit in the upside or the change
that's coming.
&gt;&gt; That's right. We we're very open to that
and we've been encouraging of that
because we like to win together. I mean,
this goes back to super positive sum
about AI. We think we can make everyone
happy here, customers, team members, you
know, and the business founders and
management who participate alongside us
in the productivity increase. And so
that's why I think we've been a
differentiated partner. Um, and I my
view is as we prove this out more and
more over time and the capital markets
start to understand kind of our vision
and what we're doing, I I'd like to
think our cost of capital will keep
coming down as well, which then further
makes us a better partner to these folks
because we can actually pay more than
anyone else because, you know, and this
is sort of what Daner proved and
Transdime and all these great operators
over many years is that, you know, if
you can establish a currency, you can
actually, you know, not have to lose
deals over price because you can operate
the deals
And then you know you you have a
diversified platform that's more
valuable and growing faster with you
know better financial metrics.
&gt;&gt; This I guess the other thing that that's
related to this is you tend to grow the
business as you buy.
&gt;&gt; So you're not really focused as much on
how do we cut costs as much as possible.
You're often focused on how do we grow
topline? How do we grow revenue? How do
we make our employees more productive in
terms of sales and serving customers.
Can you talk a little bit about that and
how you approach that? Yeah, we're we
are for us growth is and customer um
experience and growth and expansion is
the top priority. So,
&gt;&gt; and by the way, this is very true for
tech companies, but it's not very true
for many other types of companies, I
think.
&gt;&gt; Well, it's interesting. I'll tell you.
So, this kind of a non-obvious thing
that I've observed, which is actually
most of these service companies are
growthoriented and most of these
founders built these companies from
their bootstraps over 20, 30, 40 years
by knocking on doors and, you know,
figuring out how to, you know, convince
people to use their service in a certain
market. But it's actually now it's
really painful to grow because in these
industries that are very labor
intensive, if you grow 20%. You might
need to go hire another 20% people and
then you got first you got to find them,
you got to train them, then you have to
manage them. And if you're already
making a lot of money and you're kind
of, you know, you don't, you know, it's
it's this. And then by the way, so you
do all that work to hire those people
and then you only keep 20 cents on the
dollar of every incremental uh dollar of
revenue that comes in because, you know,
most of it goes to incremental labor. So
that's like a very high marginal tax
rate essentially on the growth activity.
So what we've done with AI is when you
make your existing teams 30 40% more
efficient and they can handle more
customers um it changes the whole
mindset of the organization. Now you're
growing. You look like a software
company now where you're now growing
with high incremental margins and that
allows you to invest more in growth, be
more growth oriented and um that
actually is one of the most one of the
most interesting and exciting things
about sort of this whole AI flowing
through the ecosystem is we're seeing
our partners and you know you could call
any of our CEOs and some of them have
been running their businesses for for
decades. I think they'd tell you they're
having the best time of their career now
with us because we're actually growing,
you know, like a software company and
we're seeing our team members are
getting paid more and are happier and
our customers are happier. So, it's been
a lot of fun.
&gt;&gt; Thanks so much for joining us in our
priors.
&gt;&gt; My pleasure to be here. It was a lot of
fun. Thanks for having me.
&gt;&gt; Great first interview.
&gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.
