原文： https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GROt1Nd4asY

It's model release day.
Let's go. Today is the release of Spud
GBT 5.5 from OpenAD. We've been testing
it internally at every for about 3
weeks. It's a sick model. We've tested
on everything from coding to writing to
knowledge work tasks and it's actually
like a real step change in a lot of
abilities. The big headline for me
though is its coding ability. On our
senior engineer benchmark, it scored a
62.5 out of 100. And by comparison,
human senior engineers score
consistently about 80 or 90 out of 100
on this benchmark. It's not in the
senior human engineer range yet, but
it's getting up there. Opus 47 by
comparison scored in the low30s pretty
consistently. So there's a 30 point gap
between the work that GPT 5.5 does and
the work that Opus 47 does. But there's
a catch. The best performance that we
got out of GPT 5.5 came when we ran it
on our senior engineer benchmark using a
plan written by Opus 47. Write a plan
with Opus 47 and GPT 5.5 is an absolute
beast. We're going to go into a ton of
detail on all the tests we ran and what
we found, what this new model is useful
for, what its drawbacks are. You can get
it into your work and into your life
today. I love model release days because
those are the days where we publish our
vibe checks. This is a video version of
the vibe check, but if you go to the
link down below, you're going to see our
written version. It's a couple thousand
words with all of our detailed thoughts
on exactly what we did with this model,
what we thought released on the day of.
We write new things every day to keep
you at the edge of AI. We also build
things ourselves as part of the every
subscription. We have a fleet of six
apps that we've built with codeex and
cloud code with these models to help us
in our work. Things like Kora, which is
an agent for your email, or Sparkle,
which is an antic file organizer, or
Monologue, which is a smart contation
app. All these are things we build
ourselves and release to our audience as
part of our subscription. We also do a
lot of training. So we run camps and
courses to teach you everything you need
to know to code, to write, to do design
with AI. And we even do this for big
companies and executive leadership
teams. So if this is interesting to you,
you should go to every.TO and subscribe.
Okay, so let's get into the vibe check.
I've got four main categories for you.
We've got coding, we've got writing,
we've got knowledge work, and we've got
open claw. How does GBT 5.5 stack up
versus 5.4 and versus Opus 47 and other
models? We're going to go into that in
detail. So, let's start with coding. The
headline is the senior engineer
benchmark. As I said, GPT 5.5 scores
about 30 points higher than Opus 4.7 on
the senior engineer benchmark, but it
only does that when it is used with a
plan written by Opus 47. I think this
tells us a lot about the psychology of
this model. what it's good at, what it's
not good at, and when to use it in your
workflow. To understand this a little
more, I want to talk to you about what
this senior engineer benchmark is, the
SE bench. It's a benchmark I invented.
And the benchmark basically gives the
model a vibecoded slap codebase. It's a
real codebase from an app that I built
called proof. And it says to the model,
hey, like this is vibecoded slap. How
would you rewrite this from first
principles? Basically, is it able to
rewrite a codebase? do it in a clean
first principle way where there's
conceptual clarity and it looks like a
senior engineer did it. And the gold
standard for this benchmark is actual
code written by senior engineers. I had
two different engineers do their own
rewrites of this codebase. So we get to
compare what these models do versus real
human engineers. And first of all, this
benchmark is not saturated. There's
still a lot of room on the frontier. The
best human engineers get around 80 to 90
points on this benchmark out of 100. The
best score we've ever seen is GPD 5.5.
It got about a 62.5 using a Cloud Opus
4.7 plan and it got in the low to mid40s
without, which is still much better than
Opus 4.7, which got about a 33. If you
do some prompting, you can get 5.5 to
make its own plan good enough that its
performance on this benchmark starts to
approach its performance when it uses an
Opus 4.7 plan, but it still only gets to
like the low to mid-50s. So, for my
money, Opus 4.7 is just a better planner
than 55. this model can do that other
models don't seem to be able to is it's
able to identify the underlying core
principles or invariants
that need to be true in the codebase in
the plan that it writes and then when it
starts writing code against that plan it
doesn't get as distracted by the
existing codebase. It doesn't go into
patch mode and start like patching
little holes. It has the assertiveness,
the boldness, the agency to actually go
and delete a bunch of files and and
really start from scratch and then carry
through the idea it has from start to
finish over several hours. It's not
perfect yet. It's far from perfect. Like
I said, it's still about 30 points away
from senior engineers on this benchmark,
but it is a step change in terms of how
good it is versus other models. What
happens with Opus 47 is Opus 4.7
actually produces really good plan. It's
very good at writing something that's
conceptually clear and clean, something
that feels contract driven and gives the
model a sense for if this rewrite is
good enough, this big file will only be
100 lines. That kind of thing, that
level of detail. That's what drives GBT
5.5's performance. That's what makes it
so good is if you give it a plan like
that, it just actually does it. It has
the confidence to do it. But Opus, if
you give it its own plan, it's really
beautiful, well-written plan. It says,
"Oh, this is like too much effort. like
uh I'm just going to pick off a small
little slice and then it just starts to
patch around the issue rather than
actually do the rewrite as asked for.
GBD 5.4 the old OpenAI model that's
being replaced today does the same
thing. It does it better than Opus 47,
but it still does the same thing. But
GPD 5.5 on extra high reasoning just has
that little bit of extra oomph that
allows it to actually go in and execute.
Okay. Well, what is it about the Opus 47
plan that makes GPT 5.5 better? And I
think that's really interesting because
it says something about what makes a
good use of 5.5. If you look at the plan
that Opus 47 wrote for this benchmark
versus the plan that GBD 5.5 wrote, it
has all this all the right concepts, but
it's pretty long and it doesn't have a
lot of the really specific program
contract style. Okay, here's what good
looks like. Here's what you should
delete. Here's how many files should be
left. All that kind of stuff. It's
really actually just really written well
for humans. And I think they've done a
lot of tuning on 5.5 to make it good for
humans. And if you look at 47, part of
the reason people don't like it is
because it's kind of tur and it's kind
of it feels a little bit more robotic
than you're used to with anthropic
models. But it turns out that turseness,
that exactness, that contract style of
plan is really good for 55. So, if you
want to get the most out of 55, using
Opus 47 as the planner or making sure
you prompt 55 with a lot of exact detail
is going to be the thing that draws out
this boldness, this agency, this ability
to carry a big plan through from start
to finish. It's really impressive.
Naveen, who's the GM at every who runs
Monologue, tested it on building a to-do
app called Dayline,
and he was really impressed by how it
was able to build a native iOS and Mac
app that was beautiful, works really
well, and it can just sort of turn
through a bunch of features in a plan
until it's done. It's really, really
good at that, especially if the plan is
well specified. Naveen also used it to
build a release of Monologue, the app
that he runs, and he used about 900
million tokens with GBD 5.5 in
pre-release as part of his testing. He
thinks it's his favorite model for
everything. He said he was only able to
hit the deadline that he needed to in
order to get a new feature out for
monologue by using this model. It means
an incredible senior engineer and if he
likes this model, it's worth paying
attention to. There are some things that
he's not as good at. Kieran Classon, the
general manager at Kora, which is our AI
email agent at every tested the model on
his LFG bench, which essentially
replicates his real development process
to see how a model does on more product
forward engineering tasks where you're
not necessarily refactoring a whole
codebase, but you're building a feature
um and and something that includes a lot
of front end and design and product
thinking. And he found that for for
these types of tasks in the LFG bench,
5.5 did pretty well. But OBS 4.7 had a
higher ceiling, especially on design
forward tasks, it just has a better
aesthetic sense than 5.5. And Mike
Taylor, who runs technology consulting
at every had a similar feeling about it
in his benchmarks where getting to vibe
code relatively complex app from scratch
with a underspecified plan, it just
didn't do as well as Opus 47 which is
ripped through the entire task. So
whether you're vibe coding or you're
trying to do some senior engineer type
stuff, a better specified plan is going
to be the way to get the most out of
this model. One other thing that we
noticed is that GPT55 is really good at
writing TypeScript and writing Swift,
but Kieran, who is a huge Ruby stand,
thinks it doesn't write good Ruby. So if
you're doing a Rails project, you may
not be happy with the quality of the
Ruby that gets written, but if you're in
Typescript or you're in Swift, you're
going to be pretty happy. Okay, now on
to writing. It's got a little bit less
personality than Opus, especially the
older Opus models like 46, but it's
actually really good for doing business
writing. So, I used it to write our
investor update, and it basically
one-shotted an update that was like
close to being ready to send. Katie
Parrot, who's a staff writer at every
has been using cloud models for probably
a year or two now, almost exclusively
for writing. This is the first GBT model
in a long time that she has started to
use for writing tasks over Opus or
Sonnet. in particular. Katie and Mike
both really liked it for its voice
replication. It was pretty good at at
mimicking a style without overdoing it.
It's a little bit more restrained, which
I think is why it's good at business
writing, and that makes it a little bit
more subtle as a writer. Okay, now on to
knowledge work. This is one of those
things that OpenAI was so behind on even
3 months ago or 6 months ago, and they
have just rapidly iterated to the point
where the Codex desktop app is great for
any kind of knowledge work. And using it
with GBT 5.5 is best-in-class agent
experience you can have on your desktop.
For one, it's it's really fast. It's
really powerful. It can use any of the
apps on your computer. It's good at
browsing the web. It's good at doing
things like writing dashboards or doing
complex data analysis. And again, it's
really fast. Um, in in all of these
tests, I haven't talked about this that
much, but in all of these tests, we were
pretty shocked at how slow Opus 4.7
feels in comparison. You can really tell
the hardware advantage that OpenAI is
working with right now. You can feel it.
One thing about this model that I kind
of ding it for versus Opus is some of
the training that's being done to make
it feel digestible has come at the cost
of some of its eye for detail and
knowledge work. If you're using this
model for tasks that require like really
sharp insights, I would definitely
consider using 47 over 55 for that. For
example, even the senior engineer
benchmark like grading the model
trajectories. I just trusted 47 more
than I trusted 55. even if I basically
want to use 55 more as my daily driver.
It's a great daily driver model. So,
that's basically the gist of 5.5. I feel
like it's Christmas every couple weeks
around here cuz we keep getting access
to new stuff and it keeps being
awesome. And I feel like my powers and
everybody else on the team, like all of
our powers are just increasing day by
day. You should definitely give this
model a try. It's the most usable way
right now to get the power of a Frontier
model in a userfriendly, human-friendly,
collaborative package. And that's a big
achievement. Until recently, like I
pretty much used Cloud for everything.
Over the last couple months, I've really
switched my usage where I use Cloud a
decent amount on mobile. I like the
mobile app, but for anything on my
computer, anything agentic, I'm pretty
much in codeex for everything. And I got
to say, I like it in OpenClaw. If you're
an Opus stand, the harness is really
still built to work better in Opus, but
they're releasing stuff every day that
makes it pretty good in OpenClaw. And
it's been one of those stable
experiences for me over the last couple
weeks where it's not forgetting stuff as
much. It's not doing dumb stuff as much.
It still does it a little bit, but
because it's free under my TGBT
subscription, I'm okay with a little bit
of a trade-off in power. And I think
that they'll fix that hopefully soon.
So, if you didn't like 54 in Open Claw,
I recommend giving a shot in 55. So,
that's it folks. That's our report from
the frontier. If you liked this, you
should like and subscribe, but more
importantly, you should go to every.TO.
We have a couple thousand words on this
model with everything that we tested and
everything that we found. We also have a
suite of apps for subscribers, stuff
that we built ourselves that help you
work better with AI, stuff that helps
you write your emails, that helps you
organize your files, that helps you
write better. We've got a ton of good
stuff in the every subscription. If you
try this model, we'd love to know what
you think. So, please leave a comment
and remember, stay hydrated. See you
next time. on the moon.
